Richard Nixon, 1971
[148]
Apr. 21
I am also asking, under the new act,
greater flexibility to transfer funds among
the various security assistance programs.
Such flexibility is particularly important,
for example, in this period of transition
in Southeast Asia, where our troop with-
drawals are freeing up
up substantial
amounts of military equipment formerly
used by our troops. I am asking that the
ceiling on the amount of surplus equip-
ment which can be granted to our friends
and allies be increased; this will save us
money as well as permit us to better help
those of our friends who need it. In the
long run, sound management of security
assistance demands that there be enough
flexibility to transfer funds among various
programs in order to insure that the
proper mix is used to meet our specific
objectives in each instance.
For these international security assist-
ance programs, I request authorization of
$1,993 million for FY 1972: $778 million
for supporting economic assistance, $705
million for grant military assistance, and
$510 million for military credit sales.
These security assistance programs are
at the core of our relations with certain
key friendly countries. They critically af-
fect our ability to meet our bilateral and
collective security commitments. They are
central to the achievement of major objec-
tives of U.S. national security and foreign
policy.
I therefore intend to direct by admin-
istrative action a reorganization of our
security assistance program to meet more
effectively the objectives of the Nixon
Doctrine. Various components of security
assistance-military assistance, military
credit sales, grants of excess military
stocks, supporting economic assistance,
and the public safety program-have been
fragmented in different pieces of legisla-
tion and managed through a series of dif-
ferent administrative arrangements. My
proposals would bring these programs
under one legislative act to assure that
each is viewed as part of a coherent overall
program. Military assistance for Vietnam,
Laos and Thailand will continue to be
funded in the Defense budget because
these country programs are subject to the
uncertainties of active hostilities and are
intimately linked to the logistical support
systems of our own forces in Southeast
Asia.
To assure effective policy control and
management of this new security assist-
ance effort, I would direct that a Coor-
dinator for Security Assistance be
established at a high level in the Depart-
ment of State. I would also direct that
the supporting economic assistance pro-
gram be administered by the Department
of State. The Department of Defense will
continue to have primary responsibility for
administering our military assistance and
sales programs, and for relating these pro-
grams to overall U.S. national defense
planning.
These new arrangements would be a
significant step in the direction of improv-
ing the management of our security as-
sistance program. They would therefore
represent a significant step toward achiev-
ing greater accountability to the Congress
and the public as well.
This new security assistance program
would, I am confident, serve our national
interest in the 1970s in a number of im-
portant ways. It would:
-enable us to meet U.S. commitments
more effectively and at lower cost;
-strengthen the self-defense capabili-
ties of nations to whose security the
569
