Appendix B
May
18 Ambassadors Joao Augusto Araujo Castro
of Brazil, James C. H. Shen of the Repub-
lic of China, and Epiphane Ayi Mawussi
of Togo presented their credentials to the
President in a ceremony in the Blue Room
at the White House.
19 Ambassador Gerard C. Smith, Philip J.
Farley, Paul Nitze, Lt. Gen. Royal B.
Allison, Dr. Harold Brown, and Ambassa-
dor Llewellyn Thompson of the United
States delegation to the strategic arms lim-
itation talks met with the President at the
White House to discuss the status of the
talks in Vienna.
20 The President met separately with the
Cabinet and with the bipartisan leaders of
the Senate and House of Representatives
to discuss the status of the strategic arms
limitation talks.
20 The President went to the Department of
the Treasury to meet with Secretary John
B. Connally. They discussed Secretary Con-
nally's upcoming trip to the international
banking conference, sponsored by the
American Bankers Association, in Munich.
20 The President and the First Lady hosted
a reception at the White House for dele-
gates to the strategic arms limitation talks
and their wives.
20 The President went to the Washington
Hilton Hotel to speak briefly at a Tulane
University alumni dinner honoring Senator
Allen J. Ellender, Representative Hale
Boggs, and Representative F. Edward
Hébert, all of Louisiana.
21 The President met with delegates to the
strategic arms limitation talks prior to
their return to Vienna.
23 The President is asking Eugene Ormandy,
conductor and musical director of the Phila-
delphia Orchestra, to serve as his personal
representative to the Fifth Inter-American
Music Festival currently underway in Wash-
ington, D.C., and Philadelphia. The Presi-
dent and Mrs. Nixon are Honorary Chair-
May
men of the Festival, which is held under the
auspices of the Organization of American
States and the Inter-American Music
Council.
24 Michele McDonald, newly crowned Miss
USA, called on the President at Key Bis-
cayne, Fla.
26 Ambassador David K. E. Bruce, head of the
United States Delegation to the Paris peace
talks, met with the President at the White
House.
26 The President met with Attorney General
John N. Mitchell and Federal Bureau of
Investigation Director J. Edgar Hoover to
discuss the problem of police slayings.
27 Catherine May Bedell, nominee to the
United States Tariff Commission, met with
the President at the White House.
27 The President met with Carson Howell, Ad-
ministrative Officer, White House Office,
who is retiring this month.
28 The President met with Congressman-elect
William O. Mills of Maryland, at the White
House.
28 Gov. Luis A. Ferre of Puerto Rico paid
a courtesy call on the President at the White
House.
28 Ambassador Torben Ronne of Denmark
paid a courtesy call on the President prior
to his return to Copenhagen to assume a
position in the Foreign Ministry.
28 James Suffridge, president emeritus, James
Housewright, president, and William Mc-
Guire, secretary-treasurer, of the Retail
Clerks International Association met with
the President at the White House to present
a membership plaque.
June
1 Mary Kay Leavitt, the 1971 Strawberry
Festival Queen, called on the President at
the White House. She was accompanied
by Representative Harley O. Staggers of
West Virginia.
1256
