Richard Nixon, 1971
June 30 [218]
I am very honored to have these cuff links
and will be honored to wear them.
As some of you may know, when I travel
through the country, like all Presidents
who travel through the country, there
are times when over-enthusiastic people
will grab your arm and take a cuff link.
When I wear these I will simply say,
"Watch out, the FBI will get them back."
I know that you will be hearing from
the Attorney General for the address to
the graduating class, and I will try not
to impose on his time or yours in my re-
marks on this occasion. But I did not
want to miss the opportunity on this day,
a very special day for the 100 who are
in this class and for their families who are
here, to speak to some subjects that it
seems to me are quite relevant on this
occasion.
First, I congratulate all those who are
graduates of the class, and I want to, in
speaking to you, to speak to all of the
men and the women in law enforcement
throughout this country. I want to tell
you, first, that today, significantly enough,
is a good day in terms of news, as far as
law enforcement is concerned. At 9 o'clock
this morning at the White House, I an-
nounced the most significant break-
through in stopping the source of supply
of heroin into this country that we have
made, perhaps, in recent history.
What has happened is that the Turkish
Government-and in Turkey between 60
to 80 percent of all the opium poppies
from which heroin is made that comes
to the United States is grown-that the
Turkish Government, in cooperation with
the Government of the United States, has
announced a new policy. All opium pop-
pies which produce heroin will cease to be
grown in Turkey starting in June of 1972.
This does not mean that the fight
against dangerous drugs is over. It does
mean that we have made a big step
forward.
But we would hope that as far as the
demand is concerned, enforcing those who
are the pushers, giving treatment for those
who are the addicts, that all of these pro-
grams will go forward.
I can assure you that your Government
is engaged in a worldwide offensive to
stop the source of supply of dangerous
drugs into the United States. You in law
enforcement know how important it is to
see that those who are addicted to drugs-
that those numbers can be reduced, be-
cause in our major cities, and many places
where I have seen the statistics, over 50
percent of the more aggravated crimes are
committed by those who are engaged in
the drug traffic or who are addicts.
The second point that I think is good
news, and I trust that the Attorney Gen-
eral will expand on this, are the crime
statistics that Mr. Hoover's department
has released today.
For the first quarter of this year we
have seen a downturn in the rate of in-
crease of crime. What is, however, even
more significant in terms of our cities-
we find that in 61 cities of over 100,000
population, crime was actually reduced in
the first quarter of this year. And that in-
cludes the city of Washington, D.C.
This means we are making progress in
the battle against crime. That progress
could not be made, of course, without the
laws which the Congress has enacted—
enacted in cooperation with and at the
urging of this Administration. It could
not be done without the national support
that you receive from the Federal Bureau
of Investigation and other law enforce-
ment agencies and the Attorney General
of the United States.
791
