Richard Nixon, 1971
Apr. 6 [129]
AUTOMATIC DISTRIBUTION OF FUNDS
effectiveness by how much we spend
rather than by how much we
accomplish.
My proposal for special revenue shar-
ing for education is designed to overcome
these problems by substituting a basic new
approach to providing Federal assistance.
To help formulate this proposal, the Office
of Education held ten regional hearings
to discuss the specifications for Education
Revenue Sharing, and my proposal has
benefitted from the views of educators and
those interested in education all across the
Nation.
EDUCATION REVENUE SHARING
Education Revenue Sharing would re-
vitalize the relationship between the Fed-
eral Government and State and local gov-
ernments. It would stimulate creativity
and new initiatives at State and local
levels. My proposal would establish a
new instrument of Federal assistance
which would bring together more than
thirty major Office of Education pro-
grams representing approximately $2.8
billion in grants in the 1972 budget, and
provide for an increase of $200 million in
total funding in the first year.
These funds would provide support for
educational activities in broad areas
where there are strong national interests
in strengthening school programs. The
national priority areas included are com-
pensatory education for the disadvan-
taged, education of children afflicted by
handicapping conditions, vocational edu-
cation, assistance to schools in areas af-
fected by Federal activities, and the
pro-
vision of supporting services.
This new Federal aid instrument would
have the following important features:
Funds would be distributed automati-
cally on the basis of a statutory formula
which takes account of the total school
age population in each State, the num-
ber of students from low-income families,
and the number of students whose parents
work or live on Federal property. No
State would receive less money under Ed-
ucation Revenue Sharing than it receives
under the present grant system. In addi-
tion, authority for advance funding would
be requested to facilitate careful plan-
ning free from the vagaries of the present
practice of delayed appropriations.
NO FEDERAL APPROVAL OF STATE PLANS
States would no longer be required to
submit exhaustive plans for extensive Fed-
eral review or Federal approval, but
would simply develop and publish a plan
in line with State and local needs so as
to permit all concerned citizens to become
involved with the allocation of these Fed-
eral resources. States would also appoint
an advisory council broadly representa-
tive of the public and the education com-
munity, in order to further insure that all
interests are heard. This new system
would substitute genuine citizen partici-
pation for routine bureaucratic sign-off.
BROAD DEFINITION OF PURPOSES
The areas of Federal assistance would
be broadly defined in keeping with na-
tional interests.
-The provision of equal educational
opportunities to all of our children
is a key national priority. As I pointed
out a year ago, the most glaring short-
503
