[379] Dec. 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
91-year-old Aunt Edith is in out in River-
side, California, are ones where they re-
ceive excellent care from people who care
about them. But many do not. There are
some bad nursing homes, some inadequate
ones, and there is little that the people
that are in them can do about it.
Partially, it is a question of money,
being able to afford the better ones; par-
tially it is a question of regulation. Where
it is a question of regulation, we certainly
can do something about it. That is why I
announced last summer an eight-point
program for improving our Nation's nurs-
ing homes, for cutting off funds to those
which remain substandard.
Our primary objective is the upgrading
of nursing homes, but we are not going to
hesitate to cut off funds from homes which
are hopelessly substandard.
Furthermore, we will take the initiative
in making sure that public and private re-
sources are available to provide alterna-
tive arrangements for the victims of such
homes; to cut off the funds for the sub-
standard ones and then just let the people
out, that is no answer. We must find an
alternative, and we are planning to do
exactly that.
But when we speak of the million who
live in nursing homes, we want it realized
that for every person in a nursing home,
we have 20 times as many older people
who are not in nursing homes. The great-
est need is to help more older Americans
to go on living in their own homes. In-
come programs, such as H.R. 1, tax re-
forms-they can help achieve this, be-
cause if the individuals have the funds,
then they can retain their own homes.
But so can a number of other additional
decisions which we have already made.
We want to begin by increasing the
present budget of the Administration on
Aging nearly fivefold-to $100 million.
Now, you wonder where I got that num-
ber. I must say, I heard from a number of
you
and I heard from Arthur Flemming.
He didn't know about the number until
this morning because it was $80 million
last night, and I decided, why not $100
million. One hundred million dollars is
needed for reasons that I am going to in-
dicate as to what I expect from this.
But let me put it in another context.
Let us put it in terms of priorities. The
Congress, for example, at the present time
has under consideration a tax bill. It is a
tax bill that has some very good provisions
in it. It has one in which there is disagree-
ment, honest disagreement, one where I
take a different position from some others.
But there is one provision in that bill that
provides for between $50 and $100 mil-
lion to go for the purpose of paying the
campaign expenses of an individual who
is running as the nominee of his party for
President of the United States. Now, my
friends, just let me say this: It is very
important that campaigns be adequately
financed, but I say, rather than to have
the taxpayers' money used for the pur-
pose of financing a candidate's campaign
for election, that money should be used
for the purpose of allowing the elected
President to keep his campaign promises
once he gets into office.
Now, let's see what this $100 million
is going to do. We can give special em-
phasis to services that will help people live
decent and dignified lives in their own
homes, services such as home health aides,
homemaker and nutrition services, home-
delivered meals, transportation assistance.
Much of this new money will be used to
help marshal existing and expanding re-
sources more effectively at the local level.
Toward this end, I will direct the So-
1158
