Richard Nixon, 1971
Apr. 28 [152]
tion. They involve parts of nine States, in-
cluding four-Utah, Louisiana, Ohio, and
Virginia-which now have no protected
wilderness areas at all.
My new proposals would add to the
National Wilderness Preservation System
land in the following locations: Sequoia
and Kings Canyon National Parks, and
Farallon National Wildlife Refuge,
California; North Cascades National
Park and adjacent recreation areas,
Washington; Isle Royale National Park,
Michigan; Shenandoah National Park,
Virginia; Chamisso National Wildlife
Refuge, Simeonof National Wildlife Ref-
uge, and Izembek National Wildlife
Range and Aleutian Islands National
Wildlife Refuge, Alaska; West Sister
Island National Wildlife Refuge, Ohio;
Breton National Wildlife Refuge, Louisi-
ana; Florida Keys National Wildlife
Refuge, Florida; and Cedar Breaks
National Monument, Arches National
Monument, and Capitol Reef National
Monument, Utah. I am also recommend-
ing an amendment to the wilderness pro-
posal for the Okefenokee National Wild-
life Refuge in Georgia, first submitted to
the goth Congress, so that it would take in
347,000 acres rather than the 319,000
acres originally proposed.
I urge the Congress to act quickly in
favor of these new proposals as well as
the ones already pending before it. We
owe it both to ourselves and to future
generations to safeguard as much of
primitive America as we can—and time
is not on our side.
The protection of wilderness is unusual
among public projects in that it costs the
taxpayer practically nothing. No govern-
ment purchase of land is involved, only
additional discipline in the use of land
already owned. Administrative and man-
agement expense is tiny, for man enters
these preserves only as nature's guest. He
leaves his mechanized transportation
behind, and while in the wilderness he
builds nothing and extracts nothing.
Of course there are often attractive
commercial opportunities in potential
wilderness areas: mining, lumbering, rec-
reational development, and others.
Wilderness protection, putting these op-
portunities out of reach, may impose a sort
of hidden wilderness tax in marginally
higher costs of the goods and services of
certain affected industries. That is why
the Wilderness Act provides for full public
hearings and a careful evaluative process.
It recognizes that a sensible land use bal-
ance must be struck-that America con-
tinues to value development and growth
as well as unspoiled nature.
But whatever the extent of the costs
and sacrifices incurred when we do set
aside appropriate wilderness areas, if they
are weighed in the balance against the
value of our dwindling virgin lands-
priceless, finite, and fragile—it is clear
that wilderness is a spectacular bargain
for the American people.
Creation of a comprehensive, con-
tinent-wide Wilderness Preservation Sys-
tem is a major goal within the drive for
environmental protection and quality of
life to which we are dedicated. By estab-
lishing the new wilderness areas I am pro-
posing today, we could take a long step
toward that goal. Of course, this step and
the many others that will logically fol-
low-for nearly 53 million acres of poten-
tial Federal wilderness remain for review
and study-will call for teamwork. The
Interior and Agriculture Department
officials who manage the Federal lands,
the Congress which makes the Nation's
laws, and the public which stands to bene-
589
