Richard Nixon, 1971
Nov. 7 [350]
there." So perhaps I had something to do with
the sunshine.
But while that sunshine naturally added to
the beauty of your very lovely garden and
house and the view we have from here, you
referred to another sunshine, a deeper kind,
which you hoped would lighten our friendship
and give it a greater meaning and purpose.
I sincerely share that wish, not only I, not
only as a person, but on behalf of the Govern-
ment and, indeed, the entire people of India
who have very great admiration and friend-
ship for the people of the United States.
I have said how much our people were in-
spired during our freedom struggle by the
words of great Americans, and afterwards also
by the many deeds which your scientists and
others, the many steps they have taken to add
to the world's knowledge and progress.
Now, in India, of course, when we think of
something to say—although many of us think
forward into the future-but when we want
something to say, we invariably look back into
the past. There is always some act, word, or
sentence written thousands of years ago that
could very well have been written today, and
these are some of the timeless parts of our
history-and I am sure you have many in
America-such as our great ideals which we
would like to keep, no matter what other prog-
ress there is, what other advances mankind
makes.
So, when you mentioned the sunlight, some-
thing rang a bell in my mind, but I could not
think of the words immediately, but I did
think of them later on. In one of our Vedas,
which is the earliest existing literature in the
world, I think, I found this little quotation: "As
the lotus gets its radiance with the rise of the
sun, in the same way the thoughts of friends are
auspicious and bring prosperity."
So let us hope that the words of friends
which have been spoken in this room will
bring-of course your country is already very
prosperous-but we hope that this prosperity
will be shared with those who have not got it,
and that you will also move to another kind
of prosperity. You have the material prosperity,
but the kind of, shall I say, receptivity which
enables people to enjoy prosperity. We have
found in many countries there is prosperity, but
somehow people are not enjoying it; they are
looking for something else. They don't know
what they are looking for.
So it is important to have things, but just as
important to know how to enjoy them, and
how, through them, to share the enjoyment
with others.
I would like to thank you once again for
your invitation which has made my visit pos-
sible, by giving me the opportunity of having
very useful and interesting talks with you, Mr.
President, and tomorrow, I hope with some
others, and of being present at this very gra-
cious function in this lovely room with so many
distinguished people.
May I ask you all to join me in a toast to the
health of the President and the gracious First
Lady, the future of the great people of the
United States, and to friendship between our
two countries.
350 Letter to State, County, and Local Officials About Hiring
Under the Emergency Employment Act of 1971.
November 7, 1971
AS YOU know, the Emergency Employ-
ment Act of 1971 was enacted by the
Congress this past summer. I signed it
into law on July 12; appropriations for it
were provided in early August. At my di-
rection, the Secretary of Labor has
already made funding available to com-
munities across the country, under the
provisions of this statute, for more than
100,000 jobs.
I am sure that you share my commit-
ment to reduce the level of unemploy-
ment in our country; this statute provides
one important means for moving swiftly
to provide needed public service employ-
ment and to reduce unemployment, par-
71-234-72-72
1085
