[75] Feb. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
-A political settlement in South Viet-
nam based on the political principles
I had stated on April 20. This was
to reaffirm to the other side our will-
ingness to search for a political proc-
ess that would meet their concerns.
-The immediate and unconditional
release of all prisoners of war, jour-
nalists, and other innocent civilian
victims held by both sides. This was
to underline our view that the pris-
oner issue was strictly humanitarian
and need not await resolution of
other problems.
Months of analytical work had laid the
groundwork for the ceasefire proposal.
We projected for a year into the future
the possible developments on the ground
under different ceasefire conditions. We
deliberately recognized the other side's
essential conditions. And we rejected
ceasefire proposals that looked more ad-
vantageous for our side in security terms
in order to place the greatest possible
emphasis on negotiability.
In making our formal proposals and
throughout the last two years we have
emphasized, both privately and publicly,
that we and the Republic of Vietnam
would be flexible and generous once seri-
ous negotiations were under way.
The other side's constant response has
been to demand that we unconditionally
withdraw all U.S. forces and replace
the leaders of the Republic of Vietnam
with a coalition government. Their posi-
tion is unacceptable to us on several
counts.
First, the substance of their demands.
They say nothing about what they will
do about North Vietnamese forces, when
we believe the South Vietnamese should
be free of all outside intervention. They
ask us to impose a future on South
Vietnam, when we believe the people
should choose that future.
Secondly, their view of the negotiat-
ing process. The Communists pose their
demands as preconditions to negotiations.
If we were to pay this price there would be
nothing left to negotiate.
Thirdly, the incompatibility of their
demands. Even if we were to agree to their
first demand and pull out unilaterally, we
would have absolutely no incentive to
agree to their second demand of assuring
their political victory in South Vietnam.
This would be their problem, not ours.
It would be up to them to compete with
the growing strength of the South Viet-
namese.
Lastly, the Communist definition of a
coalition government. Their definition
makes a mockery of the concept itself.
They prescribe that one-third of the coali-
tion government would be from the NLF,
one-third from those people in the "Sai-
gon Administration" who stand for
"peace, independence, and neutrality,"
and one-third from other forces who also
stand for these principles.
Since the Communists reserve the right
to define the principles of "peace, inde-
pendence, and neutrality" and to decide
which people support these principles,
their proposal for a coalition government
boils down to a demand that they nomi-
nate one-third of the government without
restrictions and have a veto power over
the other two-thirds. It is a formula for a
guaranteed political takeover.
Thus, the issue is not, as some would
have it, a question of a few personalities
in the Saigon government standing in the
way of a peaceful solution. The Commu-
nists seek not only the removal of the
254
