[116] Mar. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL
rather than the things that happen in
government.
Under the proposals which I am sub-
mitting, those in the Federal Government
who deal with common or closely related
problems would work together in the same
organizational framework. Each depart-
ment would be given a mission broad
enough so that it could set comprehensive
policy directions and resolve internally the
policy conflicts which are most likely to
arise. The responsibilities of each depart-
ment would be defined in a way that
minimizes parochialism and enables the
President and the Congress to hold spe-
cific officials responsible for the achieve-
ment of specific goals.
These same organizational principles
would also be applied to the internal or-
ganization of each department. Similar
functions would be grouped together
within each new entity, making it still
easier to delegate authority to lower levels
and further enhancing the accountability
of subordinate officials. In addition, the
proposals I submit today include a num-
ber of improvements in the management
of Federal programs, so that we can take
full advantage of the opportunities af-
forded us by organizational restructuring.
The administration is today transmit-
ting to the Congress four bills which, if
enacted, would replace seven of the pres-
ent executive departments and several
other agencies with four new depart-
ments: the Department of Natural Re-
sources, the Department of Community
Development, the Department of Human
Resources and the Department of Eco-
nomic Affairs. A special report and sum-
mary-which explain my recommenda-
tions in greater detail—have also been
prepared for each of the proposed new
departments.
RESOURCES
One of the most notable developments
in public consciousness in recent years has
been a growing concern for protecting
the environment and a growing awareness
of its highly interdependent nature. The
science of ecology-the study of the inter-
relationships between living organisms
and their environments-has experienced
a sudden rise in popularity. All of us have
become far more sensitive to the way in
which each element of our natural habitat
affects all other elements.
Unfortunately, this understanding is
not yet reflected in the way our Govern-
ment is organized. Various parts of the
interdependent environment are still un-
der the purview of highly independent
Federal offices. As a result, Federal land
policies, water programs, mineral policies,
forestry practices, recreation activities and
energy programs cannot be easily co-
ordinated, even though the manner in
which each is carried out has a great
influence on all the others.
Again and again we encounter intra-
governmental conflicts in the environ-
mental area. One department's watershed
project, for instance, threatens to slow
the flow of water to another department's
reclamation project downstream. One
agency wants to develop an electric power
project on a certain river while other
agencies are working to keep the same
area wild. Different departments follow
different policies for timber production
and conservation, for grazing, for fire pre-
vention and for recreational activities on
the Federal lands they control, though
the lands are often contiguous.
We cannot afford to continue in this
480
