Richard Nixon, 1971
June 18 [204]
We have fought together in war, we
have worked together in hard times, and
we have reached out to each other in
division to close the gaps between our
people and keep America whole.
The threat of narcotics among our peo-
ple is one which properly frightens many
Americans. It comes quietly into homes
and destroys children, it moves into neigh-
borhoods and breaks the fiber of com-
munity which makes neighbors. It is a
problem which demands compassion, and
not simply condemnation, for those who
become the victims of narcotics and dan-
gerous drugs. We must try to better under-
stand the confusion and disillusion and
despair that bring people, particularly
young people, to the use of narcotics and
dangerous drugs.
We are not without some understand-
ing in this matter, however. And we are
not without the will to deal with this
matter. We have the moral resources to
do the job. Now we need the authority
and the funds to match our moral re-
sources. I am confident that we will pre-
vail in this struggle as we have in many
others. But time is critical. Every day we
lose compounds the tragedy which drugs
inflict on individual Americans. The final
issue is not whether we will conquer drug
abuse, but how soon. Part of this answer
lies with the Congress now and the speed
with which it moves to support the strug-
gle against drug abuse.
The White House
June 17, 1971
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The proposed drug abuse control legis-
lation was S. 2097.
On the same day, the White House released
a summary of highlights of Administration ac-
tions in the fields of drug abuse prevention and
control and a fact sheet on the message.
204
Remarks to Eastern Media Executives Attending a
Briefing on Domestic Policy in Rochester,
New York. June 18, 1971
Ladies and gentlemen:
I am very happy to participate in this
media briefing. I was reminded by the
elevator operator, who, incidentally, is
the manager of the hotel-I don't think
they can afford elevator operators at the
present time-that the last time I came to
Rochester we brought a blizzard. This
time we did not bring a blizzard but I
imagine after what you have been
exposed to, you think you have been
exposed to a blizzard of words.
I am not going to try to burden you too
much with what I am sure has been cov-
ered better by the briefing team up to this
point. What I would like to try to do,
however, is to put in perspective some of
these domestic problems and briefly to
point out how I believe they affect also our
situation with regard to foreign policy. To
do that, I think it might be well to start
with a comment that was made after a
press conference I had on June 1, just a
couple of weeks ago, by a listener, a
viewer, to the effect that the viewer was
extremely interested in a number of
domestic questions, and why was it that of
the questions in the press conference, that
out of 25 or so that were answered, 22 were
on foreign policy or related to foreign
policy.
So I went back over the press confer-
749
