Richard Nixon, 1971
Apr. 7 [132]
newal assistance
this the administration
is cooperating with local officials to pro-
vide. One of my first Executive actions
as President was to pledge "full sup-
port. . . and . . . the utmost Executive
energy" for neighborhood redevelopment
efforts in the District of Columbia. A start
has been made, but through Federal and
local determination we can do still better.
We shall.
Georgetown, the District of Columbia's
living link to the colonial and Revolu-
tionary eras, also merits special attention
in the course of our bicentennial prepara-
tions. We have come to the point where
failure to act immediately on an overall
development and preservation plan for
the Georgetown waterfront area will
mean the loss by default of its unique
combination of historical, scenic, and nat-
ural values. While many imaginative ideas
for such a plan have been advanced over
the
years, none has been adopted. Now
roads and commercial development
threaten to change the waterfront forever,
piecemeal. I have asked the District gov-
ernment, the National Capital Planning
Commission, and the Departments of
HUD, Transportation, and Interior to
join with private citizens and move ahead
at once in developing an overall plan for
the Georgetown waterfront. The purpose
of the plan will be to insure the preserva-
tion of historic buildings, to increase park
lands, to save the open vistas of the river
and Roosevelt Island, and to provide for
the harmonious development of public,
commercial, and residential facilities.
INTENTIONS FOR THE LIVING CITY
Charles Dickens, visiting the United
States in 1842, took issue with the Portu-
guese diplomat's characterization of
Washington. It should be called, he said,
the city of magnificent intentions. His
novelist's eye missed no detail of the bus-
tling human life of the Capital, and the
whole scene suggested to him visions and
dreams-social and political as well as
architectural-unfulfilled, still striven for.
Dickens' insight remains pointed and
valid today. For it is clear that Wash-
ington's role as we enter America's third
century must be not only that of a political
and ceremonial capital, but also that of a
living city-a city alive in its own right
with three-quarters of a million Ameri-
cans, the life-center of all these United
States. Our intentions for Washington
still outreach our achievements, as they
may for decades to come. But let us at
least be very clear about what those inten-
tions are; let us make them as magnifi-
cent as L'Enfant's physical plan for the
District; and let us begin moving apace to
realize them.
The reality may be long in coming, but
the right intention is simple enough to
state: Washington should embody the
essence of what is best in America. The
direction of Federal effort then is plain.
Federal effort should contribute wherever
possible to making this a city unexcelled
in quality of life, urban grace and effi-
ciency, and economic opportunity. Fed-
eral effort should follow the principle that
since government is Washington's raison
d'être, we will do the city the greatest
credit by making its local government a
model and by making the Federal Gov-
ernment that is centered here as effective
and democratic as we can.
Washington as a living city, and an
exemplary one-Washington as the seat
of a local and a Federal Government that
are truly of the people, by the people, and
for the people: I invite the people of the
519
