Richard Nixon, 1971
Dec. 10 [387]
eliminate poverty in the United States.
Despite occasional setbacks, considerable
progress has been made.
That progress is now jeopardized. Two
ill-advised and restrictive amendments
contained in this bill would vitiate our
efforts and turn back the clock.
In the 1964 act the President was
granted authority to delegate-by execu-
tive action-programs of OEO to other
departments of the Government. That
flexibility has enabled this administration
to shift tried and proven programs out of
OEO to other agencies--so that OEO can
concentrate its resources and talents on
generating and testing new ideas, new
programs and new policies to assist the
remaining poor in the United States. This
flexibility, however, would be taken away
under amendments added by the Con-
gress-and the President would be pro-
hibited from spinning off successful and
continuing programs to the service
agencies.
If this congressional action were allowed
to stand, OEO would become an opera-
tional agency, diluting its special role as
incubator and tester of ideas and pioneer
for social programs.
Secondly, the Congress has written into
the OEO legislation an itemized list of
mandatory funding levels for 15 cate-
gorical programs. This specific earmark-
ing of funds for specific programs at OEO
is genuinely reactionary legislation; it
locks OEO executives into supporting and
continuing programs that may prove less
productive; it inhibits the very experi-
mentation and innovation which I believe
should be the primary mission of OEO; it
denies administrative discretion to the
executives of OEO and, most important,
it restricts and limits the amount of funds
available for hopeful new initiatives.
Should these amendments become law,
OEO's days as the principal pioneer of
the Nation's effort to combat poverty
would be numbered; OEO would rapidly
degenerate into just another ossified
bureaucracy. Even if OEO legislation
were to come separately to my desk, con-
taining these provisions, I would be com-
pelled to veto it as inconsistent with the
best interest of America's poor. I urge the
Congress to remove these restrictions.
The provision creating the National
Legal Services Corporation differs cru-
cially from the proposal originally put
forth by this administration. Our intention
was to create a legal services corporation,
to aid the poor, that was independent and
free of politics, yet contained built-in safe-
guards to assure its operation in a respon-
sible manner. In the Congress, however,
the legislation has been substantially
altered, so that the quintessential principle
of accountability has been lost.
In re-writing our original proposal, the
door has been left wide open to those
abuses which have cost one anti-poverty
program after another its public enthusi-
asm and public support.
The restrictions which the Congress has
imposed upon the President in the selec-
tion of directors of the Corporation is also
an affront to the principle of accountabil-
ity to the American people as a whole.
Under congressional revisions, the Presi-
dent has full discretion to appoint only
six of the seventeen directors; the balance
must be chosen from lists provided by vari-
ous professional, client and special inter-
est groups, some of which are actual or
potential grantees of the Corporation.
The sole interest to which each board
member must be beholden is the public
interest. The sole constituency he must
represent is the whole American people.
1175
