[75] Feb. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
Northeastern Cambodia to step up its
pressures against the Cambodian gov-
ernment or to increase its hold on
Cambodian territory. In any event,
Communist terrorist activities, assas-
sinations, and kidnappings continue
to exact a tragic toll from the Viet-
namese people.
-The Vietnamization Process. Viet-
namization made very encouraging
advances during 1970. The funda-
mental question remains: can the
South Vietnamese fully stand on
their own against a determined
enemy? We—and more importantly
the South Vietnamese-are confident
that they can. Substantial problems
remain, however: improving the
leadership of South Vietnamese
forces at all levels; enhancing their
ability to take on support as well as
combat functions; providing assist-
ance to Cambodia and bettering
Vietnamese-Cambodian understand-
ing; rooting out the Viet Cong in-
frastructure in the countryside;
assuring political stability in the
cities; managing the strains on the
Vietnamese economy as we continue
to Vietnamize other aspects of the
conflict; and moving against corrup-
tion which not only poisons the
moral atmosphere but also carries
po-
tential political impact. This is a for-
midable agenda, but South Viet-
namese accomplishments to date
demonstrate their capacity to deal
with it.
-The Negotiating Stalemate. Our in-
tensive efforts in 1970 failed to yield
progress in the Paris negotiations. We
frankly expected that our elaboration
of political principles, the appoint-
ment of Ambassador Bruce, and the
October 7 peace initiative would pro-
duce some movement from the other
side. We will not give up on negotia-
tions, though the past year indicated
that it will be extremely difficult
to overcome the enemy's mix of doc-
trine, calculations, and suspicion.
There is the additional fact that as
our forces decline, the role we can
play on many aspects of a settlement
is also bound to decline.
The substantial record of achievement
in the first two years of this Administra-
tion cannot obscure one fundamental
fact-the fighting continues.
If winding down the war is my greatest
satisfaction in foreign policy, the failure
to end it is my deepest disappointment.
We will not be content until all conflict
is stilled. This sentiment was the driving
force behind our proposal for a cease-
fire. It is at the core of our policy, for
as I said on April 20:
"The death of a single man in war,
whether he is an American, a South Viet-
namese, a Viet Cong, or a North Viet-
namese, is a human tragedy. That is why
we want to end this war and achieve a
just peace. We call upon our adversaries
to join us in working at the conference
table toward that goal.”
I once again ask the other side to work
for a settlement that will stop the fight-
ing, meet the concerns of all parties, and
last because all want it to last.
LAOS AND CAMBODIA
"The war in Indochina has been proved
to be of one piece; it cannot be cured by
treating only one of its areas of outbreak."
Address by the President
October 7, 1970
Enduring peace will come for Vietnam
262
