[278] Sept. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
statesman put this problem that we con-
fronted then in a very effective way. He
commented to me that world trade was
like a poker game in which the United
States then had all the chips, and that we
had to spread them around so that others
could play. What he said was true in the
1940's. It was partially true in the fifties
and, also, even partially true in the early
sixties. It is no longer true today. We have
generously passed out the chips. Now
others can play on an equal basis—and we
must play the game as we expect and want
them to do. We must play, that means,
the best we know how. The time has
passed for the United States to compete
with one hand tied behind her back.
This new era is a time of new relation-
ships in the world, of a changed balance of
economic power, of new challenges to our
leadership and to our standard of living.
And, my colleagues in the Congress, we
should not be resentful of these changes.
They mean that more of the world's peo-
ple are living better than before. They
help make the world a better and a more
stable and a safer place for all of us. But
they also present us with a new set of chal-
lenges the challenges of peace.
The time has come for the United
States to show once again that spirit that
transformed a small nation, a weak na-
tion, a nation of 3 million people on the
precarious edge of an untamed continent,
into the world's strongest and richest
power.
In this new era, we must find the roots
of our national greatness once again.
In order to meet the challenges of
peace, we must have a healthy America-
a strong America.
We need a healthy and productive econ-
omy in order to achieve the great goals to
which we all are so firmly committed:
-To help those who cannot help
themselves.
-To feed the hungry.
-To provide better health care for the
sick.
-To provide better education for our
children.
-To provide more fully for the aged.
-To restore and renew our natural
environment.
---
-To provide more and better jobs and
more and greater opportunity for all
of our people.
To accomplish these great goals requires
many billions of dollars. We cannot ac-
complish them without a healthy econ-
omy. We cannot accomplish them without
the revenues generated by the work of
more than 80 million Americans. And, my
colleagues in the Congress, we cannot
accomplish these goals if we make the
mistake of disparaging and undermining
"the system" that produces America's
wealth of casting it in the false light of
an oppressor and exploiter of human
beings.
We can be proud of the fact that the
much maligned American "system" has
produced more abundance, more widely
shared, and more opportunity for more
people than any other system, any time,
any place in the history of man. And it is
that very system that makes it possible
for us to help the poor, makes it possible
for us to feed the hungry, to clean up our
environment, to meet all the other great
goals which we have set for ourselves as a
nation. As we correct what is wrong in this
nation, let us always speak up for what is
right about America.
942
