Richard Nixon, 1971
Sept. 16 [292]
consider fair. In fact, we would have to
cut off aid to two-thirds of the nations in
the world-in Africa, in Latin America,
in Asia-to whom we are presently giving
aid if we applied those standards that some
suggest we apply to South Vietnam.
I again say that we would prefer, as far
as South Vietnam is concerned, that its
democratic processes would grow faster.
We believe that considerable headway has
been made. We believe that the situation
from that standpoint is infinitely better in
South Vietnam where they at least have
some elections than in North Vietnam
where they have none, and we are going
to continue to work toward that goal.
Q. Mr. President, may I follow that
up, please?
Senator Jackson said that the United
States need not feel helpless in this cir-
cumstance because it has leverage which
could redeem the situation even now.
Your answer just now suggested that we
don't plan to do anything about it. What
would you say to Senator Jackson's state-
ment about it?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Lisagor [Peter
Lisagor, Chicago Daily News], when we
speak of leverage, of course we have lever-
age because we do provide military and
economic assistance to South Vietnam.
Second, Ambassador Bunker, working
diligently, I can assure you, has attempted
to, in every way possible, to get people into
the race so that there would be a contested
election.
Third, he has, of course, worked toward
the end of once it appeared that others
would not run-of getting the election to
be one that would at least provide a
chance to have a vote of confidence in the
President. If what the Senator is suggest-
ing is that the United States should use its
leverage now to overthrow Thieu, I would
remind all concerned that the way we got
into Vietnam was through overthrowing
Diem 2 and the complicity in the murder
of Diem; and the way to get out of Viet-
nam, in my opinion, is not to overthrow
Thieu with the inevitable consequence or
the greatly increased danger, in my opin-
ion, of that being followed by coup after
coup and the dreary road to a Communist
takeover.
Q. Mr. President, on the South Viet-
namese election, once it is completed will
you feel then that the American objective
of achieving a democratic process in Viet-
nam, the objective that you stated, and
before you President Johnson so many
times, do you think that with this election
that objective will have been met?
THE PRESIDENT. No. As a matter of
fact, that objective will not be met per-
haps for several generations. But at least
we will be on the road. I think sometimes
we forget, as I tried to point out a moment
ago
in my answer to the question with
regard to military and economic assistance
to countries around the world, how diffi-
cult the process of democracy is.
It took the British 500 years to get to
the place where they had what we could
really describe as a democratic system
under the parliamentary setup, and it
didn't spring up full grown in the United
States.
I was reading a very interesting account
of the battle in 1800 between Jefferson
and Adams, and I was curious to note how
many people were eligible to vote in that
great battle of 1800 which changed the
whole future of the United States, that
brought in the Jeffersonian era. At that
time when the United States had 44
"Ngo Dinh Diem, President of the Republic
of Vietnam 1955-63.
953
