Richard Nixon, 1971
Mar. 12 [98]
other nations. I do not believe we are
prepared to take that course. What is
more important: No other nation believes
it either. That is why the United States
of America is represented and why it is
respected among the nations of the free
world-not because we are rich and not
because we are powerful, but, above all,
because we can be trusted. We have been,
we continue to be, willing to pay the price
for peace.
And we pay in the hard cur-
rency of deeds-not with hollow threats
and empty promises.
There can be no advantage to conceal-
ing hard facts in soft words. We know that
when force is rewarded, the cost of peace
and the only alternative to war will be
tyranny. This fact dominated the first half
of this century. We are determined that
it will not dominate the last half. For this
reason we have accepted the necessity of
war. But our purpose is peace.
Peace with freedom-so that peace may
be worth having.
Peace with justice-so that peace may
be worth keeping.
And peace with strength-so that
may be preserved.
peace
We must have strength. If all the world
were free, we might have no need of arms.
If all the world were just, we would have
no need of valor. But as we see that the
values we cherish are not cherished uni-
versally, and that there are those who feel
threatened by the prospects of freedom
and justice, then we must keep the
strength we need to keep the values we
cherish.
I know the arguments of the new isola-
tionists. Though we cut defense spending,
we can't cut it enough. Though we greatly
increase domestic spending in proportion
to defense spending, we can never increase
it enough.
I understand those arguments, and I
understand the sentiments behind them.
But I understand the cost of weakness, too.
The question of what is enough is not
academic. It is crucial to the survival of
this Nation.
If we have the most extensive urban
renewal programs, the most far-reaching
medical care programs, the finest high-
ways, the most comprehensive educational
assistance efforts, the most effective anti-
poverty programs-if we have all this and
more, and if we have it all at the expense
of our ability to defend ourselves, then
we would soon enjoy none of the fruits
of our efforts, and the only peace we
would know would be that terrible peace
imposed upon those who are the victims of
their own lack of vigilance.
And so today we will look to the pos-
sibilities of the future with a careful re-
gard for the realities of the present and
the lessons of the past.
As you serve in our peace forces, you
can be proud of this great fact: We Amer-
icans firmly believe in what we are and in
what we have. But we do not choose to
go the way of those ancient crusaders who
sought to civilize the world one grave at a
time. We do not seek power as an end
in itself. We seek power adequate to our
purpose, and our purpose is peace.
I have no illusions about the difficulty
of achieving that purpose. I do not believe
that peace will suddenly descend upon us
like the answer to a prayer. I do not be-
lieve we should confuse the things we can
expect from God with the things God
may expect from us. Rather, we have to
build peace, you and I together. We have
to do it with our own hands because there
is no other way. And we have to do it
with our own brains and our own courage
and our own faith.
429
