Richard Nixon, 1971
Dec. 1 [378]
will provide maximum fulfillment for you
in adult life. That is why we have re-
formed the draft to reduce the uncertainty
and duration of its pressures on young
men. That is why we are moving toward
the goal of a zero draft, an all-volunteer
armed force. That is why we have pressed
for a new college loan system to insure that
no qualified student in America who
wants to go to college will be barred by
lack of money. And that is why we are
developing new career education and
youth employment programs in recogni-
tion that something over half the college-
age young do not go to college but do need
salable skills, and they do need good jobs,
and they should be prepared for those jobs
with an education designed to do exactly
that.
We need your ideas. We need them in
the national debate on issues and goals
and directions. That is why the 1971
White House Conference on Youth was
different from any that had ever been held
before, since they first began in 1909. It
was a wide-open forum, run by young
Americans, of them, and for them.
Since 1909, older people, as they have
been meeting at these conferences, have
done so at the President's invitation to
talk about youth. Well, we felt that that
kind of generational condescension was
out of step with the seventies, so we turned
the Conference over to the
young people
themselves-let us find out what they
would tell us.
Now I am the first to tell you that not
everything they did and not everything
that they said lined up with my own point
of view or with that of others in our Ad-
ministration. But I totally recognize and
I defend their right to say it. We need to
hear it. We need to know what people,
and particularly young people, want for
the future of this country.
Certainly the time when the young are
to be seen and not heard is gone in Amer-
ica-and gone for good.
More than 300 of the Conference's
recommendations have just undergone 6
months of intensive review by the affected
Federal agencies. When the results of that
review are announced, the extent of agree-
ment between Conference hopes and Gov-
ernment action will further weaken the
myth of an unbridgeable generation gap
and will further strengthen what the con-
ferees called their sense of "kinship with
persons of good will of all generations.”
This sense of kinship, forged into a firm
new alliance of the generations, will be
essential if we are to seize the breathtak-
ing opportunities opening up for America
and the world in the coming decades.
The greatest of these opportunities is
peace--peace not just for a few years but
for a whole generation and beyond, some-
thing we have not had in this century.
Such a peace, I believe, is coming, and
the United States is leading the way.
We are concluding our involvement in
the Vietnam war, and we are doing so in
a way that is responsible, honorable, and
constructive for the long-range stability of
Asia and the Pacific region.
We have done and will continue to do
all in our power to help defuse the explo-
sive situations in the Middle East and the
one that you are currently reading about
in the Indian Subcontinent.
We have acted in an historic step to end
the isolation of nearly one-quarter of all
the world's people who live on Mainland
China. We have moved from confronta-
tion to negotiation with the Soviet Union.
with limitation of nuclear arms, relaxation
of tensions in Europe, increased trade
among the possible results.
71-234-72-76
1149
