Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 25 [75]
proposals to improve the situation in
Berlin. We are prepared to apply it to all
legitimate Soviet interests.
Such a policy of restraint, however, re-
quires reciprocity-concretely expressed
in actions.
By virtue of its size and geography, the
USSR has traditionally had important
security interests in Europe and East Asia.
Her undoubted status as a global power
obviously creates interests in other areas
where Russia has not traditionally been a
factor. But the natural expansion of Soviet
influence in the world must not distort
itself into ambitions for exclusive or pre-
dominant positions. For such a course
ignores the interests of others, including
ourselves. It must and will be resisted. It
can, therefore, lead only to confrontation.
We often approach negotiations with
differing premises. We do not suggest that
the starting point-or, indeed, the culmi-
nation-of our negotiations with the
USSR be the acceptance of our views and
positions. Nor do we expect to resolve
issues by cajoling the Soviet leaders into
solutions damaging to their national inter-
ests. We cannot be expected, however, to
accept the Soviet definition of
every issue,
to agree automatically to the Soviet order
of priorities, or to accept every aggrandize-
ment of Soviet positions abroad as a “new
reality” no longer open to challenge. The
principle of mutual accommodation, if it
is to have any meaning, must be that both
of us seek compromises, mutual conces-
sions, and new solutions to old problems.
The relationship between the two great
nuclear powers in this decade must rise
above tactical considerations. We must be
prepared to face issues seriously, con-
cretely, and in a spirit of mutual respect.
Durable solutions will be those which both
sides have an interest in maintaining.
We are engaged in a strategic and mili-
tary competition. We both possess the
capability to develop our military power
and project it massively into distant areas.
The last two decades witnessed the trans-
formation of the Soviet Union from a
Eurasian power to an intercontinental
one. The USSR now possesses military
capabilities far beyond those at the com-
mand of previous Soviet leaders.
In earlier periods our strategic superi-
ority gave us a margin of safety. Now,
however, the enormous increase in Soviet
capabilities has added a new and critical
dimension to our relationship. The growth
of Soviet power in the last several years
could tempt Soviet leaders into bolder
challenges. It could lead them to under-
estimate the risks of certain policies. We,
of course, continue to weigh carefully
Soviet statements of intentions. But the
existing military balance does not permit
us to judge the signficance of Soviet
actions only by what they say-or even
what we believe-are their intentions. We
must measure their actions, at least in
part, against their capabilities.
It is of the utmost importance that the
new strategic balance of the 1970's and
our interest in strategic stability not be
misunderstood. Confrontation may arise
from a mistaken perception of the posture
of an adversary. Such a mistake can lead
to a failure to appreciate the risks and
consequences of probing for advantages
or testing the limits of toleration. We be-
lieve that this was involved to some degree
in the events which led up to the Middle
East crisis last
year.
It may also have been a factor in Soviet
naval actions in the Caribbean in the fall
of 1970. There the Soviet Union took
new steps which could have afforded it
the ability to again operate offensive
305
