[156] May 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
we regionally are favoring one part of the
country over another, but this part of the
country has suffered the most from the
turn from a wartime to a peacetime econ-
omy, and now it is necessary, as we move
in certain areas, to look at California and
the Pacific Northwest, as well as other
pockets where they have suffered pri-
marily from the change in defense
spending.
ANTIWAR DEMONSTRATORS
[2.] Mr. Risher [Eugene V. Risher,
United Press International].
Q. Mr. President, you said that you
will not be intimidated by the antiwar
demonstrators in Washington, but can
you tell us if you consider that these
demonstrators serve a useful purpose or
a legitimate purpose, or whether you will
meet with any of them when you return
to Washington?
THE PRESIDENT. I have no plans to
meet with any of them, Mr. Risher. I am
quite aware of their position. They have,
along with many others-some of those
who represent their views in the Senate-
have strongly expressed their position to
me. I respect their views. I respect their
right to disagree with my position.
But I believe my position is right, and
I think in the long run they are going
to reach that conclusion, too, because they
don't want just what is so easy for a man
in terms of leadership, that quick politi-
cal movement that would say "Peace
now" without regard to peace in the fu-
ture. And it is peace-not just in our time,
but peace in their time, these young peo-
ple-that I am constantly emphasizing.
Now, with regard to the demonstrators,
when I say
that I will not be intimidated,
and that the Congress will not be intimi-
dated, I am simply stating the American
principle that while everybody has a right
to protest peacefully, that policy in this
country is not made by protests. Those
who make policy must, of course, listen,
and then they must weigh all the other
facts and then do what they think is right.
And also, when I say that we will not
be intimidated, I should point out that
while the demonstrations a week ago were
peaceful demonstrations for the most part,
this week we have had some incidents at
several departments where it was neces-
sary to arrest those who were breaking
the law. If this kind of illegal conduct
continues next week, as some say it will,
we are prepared to deal with it. We will
arrest those who break the law.
The right peacefully to demonstrate, or
let me put it another way, the right to
demonstrate for peace abroad, does not
carry with it the right to break the peace
at home. And we are going to see to it
that anybody who comes to Washington
to demonstrate peacefully is protected in
that right, and that it is recognized.
But, on the other hand, we are going
to see to it that the thousands of Gov-
ernment workers who have a right to go
to work peacefully are not interfered with
by those militants, those few militants,
who in the name of demonstrating for
peace abroad presume that they have the
right to break the peace at home.ยน
ยน A statement on the operation of the Gov-
ernment during the demonstrations was read
by White House Press Secretary Ronald L.
Ziegler during his regular news briefing at the
White House on May 4, 1971, and is printed
in the Weekly Compilation of Presidential
Documents (vol. 7, p. 725).
606
