[75] Feb. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
superable obstacle to our efforts in South
Vietnam. Our first reaction to Prince
Sihanouk's removal was to encourage the
negotiations which the Cambodian gov-
ernment was seeking with the Commu-
nists. However, Hanoi flatly refused such
a course and rapidly spread out its forces
to link up its base areas and pose a grow-
ing threat to the neutral government in
Phnom Penh.
As I pointed out in my final report on
the Cambodian operations, enemy actions
during April and captured enemy docu-
ments unmistakably show their intentions.
We faced the prospect of one large enemy
base camp 600 miles along South Viet-
nam's flank; a solid supply route from the
port of Sihanoukville through which most
of the war materiel for the southern half
of South Vietnam had come in the pre-
vious six years; and a vast staging and
sanctuary area from which to attack allied
forces in Vietnam with impunity. This
would have meant increased enemy at-
tacks, higher casualties among our men
and our allies, and a clear threat to Viet-
namization, the withdrawal program, and
the security of South Vietnam.
Our choice, though difficult, seemed the
more necessary the longer we pondered it.
If we wished to pursue the policy of turn-
ing over responsibilities to the South Viet-
namese and withdrawing our troops, we
had to clear out the enemy sanctuaries.
The alternative was to allow the enemy to
build up this threat without challenge, to
increase his attacks, and to raise allied
casualties. This would sooner or later have
confronted us with the choice of either
halting our withdrawals, or continuing
them but jeopardizing the lives of those
remaining behind.
I preferred to make a difficult decision
in April rather than magnifying our
dilemma by postponement.
The results of our joint two-month op-
erations with the South Vietnamese, and
the subsequent sweeps of the sanctuaries
by South Vietnamese forces, removed this
threat. There were as well these positive
results:
-greatly reduced American casualties;
in the six months before the sanc-
tuary operations the average weekly
casualties were 93, in the six months
after they were 51.
-extensive materiel and manpower
losses for the enemy which they are
taking a long time to replace.
-the ending of the concept of immune
Cambodian sanctuaries.
-the dislocation of enemy supply lines
and strategy in the Saigon and Me-
kong Delta regions; as a result the
main forces war substantially ended
for the southern half of the country
during 1970.
-precluded the enemy from reopening
his route of supply by sea.
-separation of Communist main force
and guerrilla units and a boost to
pacification efforts in the southern
half of the Republic of Vietnam.
-insurance that our troop withdrawals
would continue.
-increased time for the South Viet-
namese to strengthen themselves.
-a tremendous lift in the morale
and self-confidence of the South
Vietnamese.
My decision to send U.S. ground forces
into Cambodia, though clearly required
because of these factors, was nevertheless
anguishing because of the domestic
reaction.
At the time those who urged an im-
mediate American pullout from Vietnam
were joined in protest by some who gen-
258
