[318] Oct. I
Public Papers of the Presidents
help avert the deeper tragedies that all
too easily could follow.
NOTE: The statement was released at Key
Biscayne, Fla.
A White House announcement of the crea-
tion of an Advisory Panel on South Asian
Relief Assistance and designation of the Panel's
membership was released by the White House
on August 21, 1971, and is printed in the
Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents
(vol. 7, p. 1208).
319 Statement About the Retirement of Dr. Ralph Bunche
as Under Secretary General of the United Nations.
October 1, 1971
IT WAS with deep regret that I learned
that Dr. Ralph Bunche is leaving his im-
portant post with the United Nations.
From those wartime days when he helped
to plan for the establishment of the U.N.,
and throughout the subsequent history of
that organization, Dr. Bunche has dedi-
cated himself fully to its advancement. His
wisdom, his creativity, and his courage
have been an inspiration to all who have
come to know him.
Dr. Bunche will be sorely missed at the
U.N. As he enters his retirement he can
do so with the certain knowledge that he
has earned the deepest thanks and warm-
est best wishes of this Nation-and of his
fellow men everywhere.
NOTE: The statement was released at Key Bis-
cayne, Fla.
Dr. Bunche had served as Under Secretary
General for Special Political Affairs since 1957.
320 Statement About Deferment of Federal Pay Raises.
October 2, 1971
NEXT WEEK the Congress faces the acid
test of its determination to cooperate in
the national campaign to control rising
prices. The House will either sanction, or
veto, deferral of Federal pay raises from
January 1 to July 1, 1972. That deferral
has been made necessary in order to do
equity and to help balance the Federal
revenue loss resulting from the tax cuts I
have proposed as part of the new program
to create jobs and stop inflation.
The sacrifice being asked of Federal
workers is not so heavy as to be inequi-
table, at a time when all Americans are
being asked to sacrifice. The average Fed-
eral white-collar worker earns almost
$13,000 in pay and benefits; his pay has
risen 21 percent since mid-1969. With this
deferral, the principle of comparability is
maintained. The comparability increase
will become effective July 1, 1972.
In the Federal Pay Comparability Act,
when the Congress declared that alterna-
tive pay plans could be submitted "because
of national emergency or economic con-
ditions affecting the general welfare," it
anticipated the present situation. Such
conditions now exist.
If we are to ask the private sector to
make unpopular decisions on wages, then
we in the Federal Government-the larg-
est employer in the United States-must
demonstrate the courage to make a similar
decision. Political pressures, however, are
1018
