Richard Nixon, 1971
Nov. 12 [356]
Vietnamese are probably at their weakest
that they have been since the war? Is this
because of floods and lack of resources?
THE PRESIDENT. The major reason
they are the weakest they have been since
the war is because of Cambodia and Laos,
and the floods, of course, have hurt them,
too.
CAMPAIGN PLEDGE
[12.] Q. Mr. President, in connection
with your answer on negotiations, is what
you are saying that perhaps you might not
be able to keep your 1968 promise to end
the war, which as I believe was your cam-
paign pledge, rather than just ending
America's role in the war?
THE PRESIDENT. I would suggest that I
be judged at the time of the campaign,
rather than now, on that. I would also
suggest that every promise that I have
made I have kept to this date, and that is
usually a pretty good example of what you
might do with regard to future promises.
drawal of all American forces. It also not
only means a total withdrawal of Ameri-
can forces in South Vietnam, it means a
discontinuation of our airstrikes and also
withdrawal of forces stationed in other
places in Southeast Asia or in the Asian
theater that are directly related to the
support of our forces in Vietnam. That is,
in other words, what is involved if we can
get a negotiated settlement.
If we do not get a negotiated settle-
ment, then it is necessary to maintain a
residual force for not only the reason-
and this is, of course, a very primary
reason-of having something to negotiate
with, with regard to our prisoners, but it
is also essential to do so in order to con-
tinue our role of leaving South Vietnam
in a position where it will be able to de-
fend itself from a Communist takeover.
Both objectives can be fulfilled, we be-
lieve, through a negotiated settlement. We
would prefer that. If they are not fulfilled
through a negotiated settlement, then we
will have to go the other route, and we are
prepared to do so.
POSSIBILITY OF RESIDUAL FORCE
[13.] Miss Thomas [Helen Thomas,
United Press International].
Q. Mr. President, we read much
specu-
lation that you plan to keep a residual
force, 40,000 or 50,000 men, in Vietnam
until the prisoner-of-war issue is settled
completely and all prisoners are out. Is
that still valid?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, first, Mrs. Cor-
nell [laughter]-it had to come! 1
Q. Touché. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. First, if the situation
is such that we have a negotiated settle-
ment, naturally that means a total with-
¹ Helen Thomas was married in October to
Douglas Cornell, newly retired as White House
correspondent for the Associated Press.
AMNESTY TO DRAFT EVADERS
[14.] Q. Mr. President, do you foresee
granting amnesty to any of the young men
who have fled the United States to avoid
fighting in a war that they consider to be
immoral?
THE PRESIDENT. No.
SALT PROSPECTS
[15.] Q. Mr. President, you met this
afternoon with our SALT negotiating
team which is returning to Vienna. Earlier
this
year you expressed the hope that some
kind of agreement could be made. Do you
foresee some kind of SALT agreement
1105
