Richard Nixon, 1971
Oct. 13 [332]
Federal dollars on a three for one basis
rather than the two for one basis that
otherwise applies. I propose that the qual-
ifying figure for three for one assistance be
cut in half.
(2) Provide increased equity to
MESBICS in the form of preferred stock
to be purchased by the SBA in place of
part of the debt instrument purchased by
the SBA under current law. This would
reduce the debt load presently carried by
MESBICS and stimulate added invest-
ments to create larger and more vigorous
MESBICS.
(3) Lower the interest rate on SBA
loans to MESBICs to three points below
the normal rate set by the Treasury De-
partment during the first five years of the
loan.
These provisions should greatly increase
the resources which are available to mi-
nority businesses through the MESBIC
program.
BETTER COORDINATION
I am also issuing today an executive or-
der [11625] giving the Secretary of Com-
merce-and, through him, the Office of
Minority Business Enterprise-increased
authority over all Federal activities in the
minority enterprise field. This order gives
the Secretary a clear mandate to estab-
lish and carry out Federal policy concern-
ing minority enterprise and to coordinate
the related efforts of all Federal depart-
ments and agencies. It also directs the
departments and agencies to develop sys-
tematic data collection processes con-
cerning their minority enterprise programs
and to cooperate in expanding the overall
Federal effort. The substantive provisions
of Executive Order 11458 of March 5,
1969 are also carried over into the new
order.
UNFINISHED BUSINESS
In addition to these new initiatives, I
again urge action on a number of older
proposals. Among these is my suggestion
that a new Assistant Secretary for
Minority Enterprise be created in the De-
partment of Commerce-an important
step in giving greater cohesion and greater
emphasis to Federal involvement in this
area.
Other important legislation includes
Senate Bill 544, which would alter tax
laws so as to ease the burden on small,
marginal businessmen. I also urge passage
of the Small Business Amendments Act of
1971. Finally, I again ask the Congress to
enact the Indian Business Development
Program Act, the Indian Financing Act,
and the Washington, D.C. Development
Bank Act of 1971.
CONCLUSION
The best way to fight poverty and to
break the vicious cycle of dependence and
despair which afflicts too many Americans
is by fostering conditions which encourage
those who have been so afflicted to play
a more self-reliant and independent
economic role.
This goal will not be achieved overnight
for there is no easy way to eliminate the
barriers which now prevent many who are
members of minority groups from control-
ling their fair share of American business.
Yet the long range health of our econ-
omy—and, indeed, of our entire society——
requires us to remove these barriers as
quickly as possible. Both morally and
economically, we will not realize the full
71-234-72-69
1045
