Richard Nixon, 1971
Nov. 12 [356]
enterprise system.
I believe that this answer of the Pay
Board and the Price Commission is a very
realistic one. I believe it will succeed, and
one of the major reasons I believe it will
succeed is the enormous public support
that we had not only during the 90-day
period but that we continue to have for
the period after the freeze. That public
support will make this work.
TROOP CEILING
[17] Q. Mr. President, could I be
quite clear on the withdrawal?
THE PRESIDENT. You mean perfectly
clear, right? [Laughter]
Q. Is the 45,000 to be taken from the
184,000, sir? Does it come from the De-
cember 1 target figure?
I
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, that is right.
Take your ceiling of December 1 and take
45,000 from that and you get where we
will be on February 1. Let me point out,
incidentally, that we are always slightly
below that ceiling, as you know, with re-
gard to actual withdrawals. But we have
set as the ceiling for February 1 the 45,000
from 184,000, but we will probably be
below that at that time by a few hundred
or maybe even a few thousand.
of these withdrawals, can you tell us what
his reaction was?
THE PRESIDENT. Complete approval.
President Thieu, along with General
Abrams and General Vien, the others
who work together in the combined Joint
Chiefs over there, have been, just as Sec-
retary Laird has reported, enormously
impressed with the speed of the training
program and the ability of the South Viet-
namese to defend themselves.
It has gone faster than we had thought,
and also, as was pointed out by one of the
earlier questioners here, the level of enemy
activity has not been as great as it was,
due to the fact that the enemy doesn't
have the punch that it had. Cambodia
took a great deal out of the enemy's
punch. Laos took a great deal out of its
punch. And in addition to that, these tor-
rential floods have made it difficult for
the enemy to be as effective in its attacks
as it was previously.
That does not mean, however, looking
to the future, that we must not be on
guard. That is why I say we are going to
watch this infiltration route and rate very,
very carefully in the critical months of
December and January before making
another withdrawal announcement.
CHINA TRIP
[18.] Q. Mr. President, have you set
a date to go to China yet?
THE PRESIDENT. I have nothing to an-
nounce on that at this time.
PRESIDENT THIEU'S REACTION TO TROOP
WITHDRAWALS
[19.] Q. Mr. President, if we can as-
sume that President Thieu was informed
AID TO CAMBODIA
[20.] Q. Mr. President, in your most
recent foreign aid bill, you requested a
total of $341 million in military and
economic aid for Cambodia. The head of
the Government of Cambodia has just
renounced democracy as a viable form of
government, which some people think has
an analogy to earlier developments in
'Gen. Cao Van Vien, Chairman of the
Joint General Staff, Republic of Vietnam.
1107
