Richard Nixon, 1971
Dec. 2 [379]
1
hands with 2,700, that would be more
than the 4 hours that Chief Justice War-
ren ¹ took on Monday night, and I
wouldn't get here this morning. I wish I
could have, though, to welcome all of
you
from all of the States of this Nation, all
with your deep commitment.
Now I want to talk about this Confer-
ence, the White House Conference. I want
to talk about it very candidly, in terms not
of the past or the present, the resolutions
that you will present, but in terms of the
of you
future.
Down in the Library of Congress there
is a whole floor, with many, many stacks
of volumes of the records of White House
conferences-conferences on the aged,
conferences on young people, conferences
on health. On almost any subject you can
imagine, there has been a White House
conference. And
President has par-
every
ticipated in them; every President opens
them or closes them, as the case may be.
Those volumes, so very many of them,
when I have seen them down there, just
gathered dust. And you wonder what hap-
pened; was it worth it? And all of you, as
you come to the end of this Conference,
must wonder, after all the work you have
done, after all the recommendations you
have made: Is it going to end here, or is
this a beginning?
That is what I want to talk about. I
would be less than candid if I were not to
say that many White House conferences
are more cosmetics than the real thing.
They talk about the problem, give people
an outlet—and, of course, that is a good
thing-but recommendations usually are
not put into practice as often as they
should be.
1
When this Conference was called, as
¹ Earl Warren, Chief Justice of the United
States 1953-69.
John Martin and Arthur Flemming will
tell you,
I told them I wanted to know
what we could do. And in preparing my
remarks today, I wanted to speak spe-
cifically to the things that you recom-
mended, and to speak, also, to how we
could follow up.
I do not want the volumes-and there
will be volumes on this Conference-sim-
ply to gather dust in the Library of Con-
gress or in the office of the President. As
long as I am here, I will go over and shake
off the dust myself to find out what was
said. But Dr. Flemming told me before I
came in here just what he said to you
when he introduced me: that each one of
you has made a very important pledge this
morning, a specific commitment to action
in the post-conference year. I am here to
join you in that pledge. This means that
I am going to give my close, personal at-
tention to the recommendations of this
Conference.
I have asked Dr. Flemming to stay on.
We really cannot afford him, but he comes
really as a volunteer. He is not only going
to be Chairman of the Conference in the
follow-up period, but also as a special
consultant on aging, so that I can take up
these matters personally with him, as well
as with John Martin, who, as you know, is
my special assistant on aging.
Now, Dr. Flemming is known to you
from having presided over this Confer-
ence. He is also known as a great educator.
I knew him as a member of the Cabinet.
Beneath that very genteel exterior is one
of the most tenacious men I have ever
known. So you have got a good repre-
sentative there speaking up for your cause.
The second step that I have taken is
that I have directed that your recom-
mendations be put at the top of the
agenda of our Cabinet-level Committee
1153
