Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 22 [69]
in which lenders could sell paper in order
to replenish their supply of loan capital.
Establishment of the National Student
Loan Association would relieve this
squeeze on liquidity by making available
an additional $1 billion for student loan
funds. The Association would be author-
ized to buy student loans made by quali-
fied lenders-universities as well as
commercial lending institutions. This sec-
ondary market would enable universities
and commercial lenders to make loans to
students in far greater quantity than they
have in the past.
It is important to be clear on what this
reform would mean. It would mean that
higher education would be open to all the
people of this country as never before. It
would mean that students still in high
school would know that their efforts to
qualify for college need not be compro-
mised by doubts about whether they can
afford college. It would mean that their
choice of a college would be based on their
educational goals rather than upon their
family's financial circumstances.
RENEWAL, REFORM AND INNOVATION
If we are to make higher education
financially accessible to all who are quali-
fied, then our colleges must be prepared
both for the diversity of their goals and
the seriousness of their intent. While col-
leges and universities have made excep-
tional efforts to serve unprecedented num-
bers of students over the last decade, they
must find additional ways to respond to a
new set of challenges:
to
-All too often we have fallen prey to
the myth that there is only one way
learn-by sitting in class, reading
books, and listening to teachers.
Those who learn best in other ways
are rejected by the system.
-While the diversity of individuals
seeking higher education has ex-
panded in nearly every social dimen-
sion-age, class, ethnic background—
higher education institutions have
become increasingly uniform and less
diverse.
-Increasingly, many colleges, and par-
ticularly universities, have become
large, complex institutions which
have lost their way. The servants of
many masters and the managers of
many enterprises, they are less and
less able to perform their essential
tasks well.
-At the present time, thousands of
individuals of all ages and circum-
stances are excluded from higher edu-
cation for no other reason than that
the system is designed primarily for
18-22 year olds who can afford to go
away to college.
-At the present time, institutional and
social barriers discourage students
from having sustained experiences
before or during their college years
which would help them get more out
of college and plan for their future
lives.
The relationship between the Federal
Government and the universities has con-
tributed little to meeting these needs
because it has not been a genuine partner-
ship. In many cases the Federal Govern-
ment has hired universities to do work
which has borne little natural relation-
ship to the central functions of the insti-
tution. Too often, the Federal Govern-
ment has been part of the problem rather
than part of the solution.
Certain Federal agencies promote ex-
cellence, innovation, and reform in par-
ticular areas.
areas. The National Science
197
