[409]
Public Papers of the Presidents
Dec. 23
Schmidt has accepted my invitation to
become the first Chairman of the Presi-
dent's Cancer Panel. As chairman of the
National Panel of Consultants on the Con-
quest of Cancer, Mr. Schmidt has played
an active role in the development and en-
actment of the National Cancer Act. He
is an effective leader of men and a dedi-
cated community servant. The Nation is
fortunate that he will be heading this
important panel in its critical first year.
Even as the plans for our national
cancer program were being completed in
the past few months, other developments
have continued to fuel our hopes for fur-
ther substantial progress in discovering
the causes and cures of cancer. Scientists
in all parts of the world have continued
to contribute important new findings to
the growing pool of knowledge about this
disease. There continues to be every reason
for believing that cancer research, of all
of our research endeavors, may be in the
best position to benefit from a new appli-
cation of human and financial resources.
This is the case, however, only because
so many men and women have already
given so much to the battle against cancer
in the past. Their energies and talents and
sacrifices have built the foundations on
which all future progress must rest.
As we plan for future progress, we
should also remember that the expansion
410
Christmas Message.
December 23, 1971
CHRISTMAS is a season of joy and of
love, and also a time for reflection.
We think, in this season, of those who
are closest to our hearts, even though they
may be far away in miles. We pause to
give special thought to those in need, and
of the Federal campaign against cancer
in no way diminishes the continuing im-
portance of private and voluntary activi-
ties. It is essential, for example, that an
organization such as the American Can-
cer Society-which has raised so much
money for this cause and which has done
so much to promote research and edu-
cation in this field-continue to play its
full effective role. The new national can-
cer program must not replace our present
efforts to fight cancer; it must supplement
them and build on them.
As this year comes to an end, cancer
remains one of mankind's deadliest and
most elusive enemies. Each year it takes
more lives in this country alone than we
lost in battle in all of World War II. Its
long shadow of fear darkens every corner
of the earth. But just as cancer represents
a grim threat to men and women and
children in all parts of the world, so the
launching of our great crusade against
cancer should be a cause for new hope
among people everywhere.
With the enactment of the National
Cancer Act, the major components for our
campaign against cancer are in place and
ready to move forward. I am particularly
happy that the year 1971-at the begin-
ning of which I issued my call for a new
campaign against cancer-can end with
the signing of this landmark legislation.
to the universal bonds that link all man-
kind in brotherhood under God. In do-
ing so, we touch something basic and
good in the human spirit: that special
grace that makes this a time of giving,
and of forgiving-a time of goodwill,
1208
