Richard Nixon, 1971
Jan. 4 [6]
now think of as your primary achieve-
ment, specifically, and what is your pri-
mary
failure or mistake?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Sevareid, the
primary achievement is, I think, in the
field of foreign policy. We have not yet
ended the war in Vietnam. I had hoped
that we would have by this time. But we
now see the end of Americans' combat
role in Vietnam in sight. The fact, for
example, that when we came in, American
casualties in the last year of the previous
administration were 14,500, the casualties
this year are 4,200. That is still much too
high. I will not be satisfied until I do not
have to write any letter at all to the next
of kin of somebody killed in Vietnam.
But we are on the way out and we are
on the way out in a way that will bring
a just peace, the kind of a peace that will
discourage that kind of aggression in the
future, and that will build, I hope, the
foundation for a generation of peace. That
is our major achievement in, I think, the
foreign policy field.
Now, in the disappointment side, I
think the greatest disappointment legis-
latively was the failure to get welfare re-
form. I believe this would have done more
than anything else to deal with the prob-
lems of poverty in this country, the prob-
lems that many of our cities have and our
States have, the problems of minority
groups who have particular difficulties,
insofar as welfare is concerned.
And then finally, if I could add one
other-I would not like to limit it to just
one-I think the greatest disappointment
was in terms of the tragedies of Kent
State, of Jackson State, and of the Uni-
versity of Wisconsin.ยน
1 Four students were killed in a clash with
National Guardsmen at Kent State Univer-
It is true that over the past 2 years we
have seen the war wind down. We have
seen our cities not as inflamed as they were
previously. We have seen the amount of
violence going down some, but during this
Administration to have had three such
tragedies as that, left a very deep impres-
sion upon me. And I trust, that as we con-
tinue to have success in foreign policy, as
we continue to solve the problems that
people are interested in, that this kind of
violence will begin to recede even more.
THE ECONOMY
[3] NANCY H. DICKERSON (Public
Broadcasting Service). Mr. President, I
would like to ask you about one of your
specific problems, namely the economy.
Now, despite the initiatives that you have
taken in the past few weeks, there is still
widespread pessimism about unemploy-
ment. In fact, in places like California,
there is a near panic psychology about
joblessness. And your own economic ad-
visers say that the basic trouble is a lack of
confidence in the economy.
What do you plan to do to restore
people's confidence in the economy before
things get any worse than they now are?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, first, I believe
that that confidence is being restored.
Confidence is something that is a very
intangible factor, as you know. It is how
people feel at a particular moment. And
people who may be very confident one
month may have lack of confidence the
next month.
sity on May 4, 1970, two students were killed
by police gunfire at Jackson State College on
May 14, 1970, and a research assistant was
killed at the University of Wisconsin when his
laboratory was destroyed by a bomb on Au-
gust 24, 1970.
7
