[77] Feb. 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
all the beautiful objects which have his-
torical meaning. So we are so pleased that
they are going to get to see the Adams
portraits beginning tomorrow morning.
We are grateful to Mr. John Quincy
Adams, of Dover, Massachusetts, for his
very generous gift of the valuable portraits
to the White House collection. We are
especially pleased to have the one of Mrs.
Adams because there was not one of her
in the White House until this time.
I should like today to greet Mrs.
Arthur Adams, who is the mother of the
donor and also the mother of the
Governor of Massachusetts.
Would she take a bow, please?
It gives me great pleasure at this time
to introduce Mr. John Quincy Adams,
who is a great-great-grandson of President
John Quincy Adams and a great-great-
great-grandson of John Adams. No other
family in American history has provided
both a father and a son as Presidents.
Mr. Adams.
MR. ADAMS. Mr. President, Mrs.
Nixon, distinguished friends of the White
House:
When John Quincy Adams arrived at
the President's House in 1825, after a
bitter campaign which he finally won not
in the electoral college but in the House
of Representatives, this Mansion soon to
be called the White House stood largely by
itself. It was surrounded by farm build-
ings, stables, sheds, tool houses, and dair-
ies. Cows grazed nearby; sheep kept the
grass from getting out of hand. Pennsyl-
vania Avenue was a dust bowl in the
summer and no doubt a quagmire of mud
in the winter and spring. There was
neither plumbing nor running water in
the building, and things were, by today's
standards, Spartan, to say the least.
But to a puritanical New Englander,
the son of a Yankee farmer turned lawyer,
this wasn't so bad. After all, during the
last few months of his father's term in
office, Abigail, the first First Lady to live
here, hung her laundry in this, the famous
East Room.
Complaining bitterly in a letter to her
sister that she much preferred Philadel-
phia, Abigail wrote, "Not one room or
chamber is finished of the whole. It is
habitable by fires in every part, 13 of
which we are obliged to keep daily or
sleep in wet and damp places."
We hope that things are a little better
now. [Laughter]
Ours was a rural society in the 1820's.
The President traveled back and forth
to Boston by coach and by ship unan-
nounced and uncomfortable. When his
father, John Adams, died in Quincy, on
July 4, 1826-by extraordinary coinci-
dence the same day his friend Thomas
Jefferson died and, again, to the day, the
50th anniversary of the Declaration they
labored over in Philadelphia-it took 5
days for the news to get to Washington.
John Quincy Adams was unquestion-
ably a man of brilliant intellect, stubborn,
aloof, courageous, bound by principle and
not by expediency. In short, a statesman
but not a politician. Underneath it all he
had a warm heart but he certainly did
his best to hide it, and in this case his
best was very good indeed.
Incredible as it may seem in an era
of television and press conferences, he
made only two public speeches during his
entire 4-year term in office. I have often
wondered why it was that in succeeding
generations of the family nobody has
been able to win a substantial victory-
political victory. Certainly, there has been
ability and courage and vision to wrestle
with the great issues of the day. Some
348
