[260] Aug. 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
in Washington, the Director of the Office
of Budget and Management, Mrs. George
Shultz. She is from New Hampshire. She
was a nurse. And she set an example in her
own life of what nursing can mean and
what it can do.
In speaking today about what the Gov-
ernment will do the Federal Govern-
ment-to upgrade our nursing homes for
the elderly, upgrade them so that, as near
as possible, they can be as fine as this one,
let me say, we can build finer buildings,
we can provide more money; but what
really counts are the people who work
here, the nurses, the supervisors, and peo-
ple up and down the line, because the fine
buildings, and the good view and the
good weather that we had today would
mean nothing if you had a sourpuss com-
ing in that room every day to say good
morning to you.
I simply want to pay tribute to the won-
derful nurses, thousands of them-thou-
sands I will never meet-who dedicate
their lives to this profession and who make
the people they work with a little happier
because they are there.
Let me say, finally, I speak with some-
what a personal feeling here because my
mother, in the last year of her life, had
had a disabling stroke, and she was in a
rest home during that period. When I
went to see her, I couldn't tell whether
she recognized me or not. I always rather
thought she did. But I am always grate-
ful and will always be grateful for the fact
that the nurses that were in that room
treated her with such love and such at-
tention. I will never forget it.
So today I think all of us who are fortu-
nate enough to be well, and walking, and
who have our mothers or our grand-
mothers or, as the case might be, some
other relative who may be in a home like
this-all of us want to extend our appre-
ciation and our thanks to those who main-
tain such institutions as this, to those who,
in addition to simply providing the food,
sometimes the clothing, sometimes the
rooms, all these material things, provide
something that money cannot buy: affec-
tion, caring, really wanting to see that the
individuals who are here have a better day
and a better life by reason of what they are
able to provide in raising their spirits.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4 p.m.
261 Remarks on Arrival at Bangor, Maine.
August 6, 1971
Governor Curtis, Congressman Hatha-
way, and all of you who have come out
to the airport to welcome us to Maine and
given us such a wonderful welcome here
at Bangor:
I can't tell you how pleased we are to
see you. As we circled the airport in what
is now the Spirit of '76-it used to be
Air Force One ¹-we saw all those cars
parked. We thought of how long it took
you to walk here and how long you have
¹On July 30, 1971, in a ceremony at An-
drews Air Force Base, Md., the President re-
designated Air Force One as the Spirit of '76,
as a symbol of the American Revolution Bi-
centennial.
882
