Richard Nixon, 1971
Oct. 12 [328]
ing at the summit might mean simply an
impasse; but when we look back over the
record of the last 2 years, 22 years, sig-
nificant progress has been made.
We have had a treaty with regard to
the seabeds. We have had one with regard
to biological weapons. We have had an
agreement coming out of the SALT talks
with regard to the hotline and accidental
war and, of course, most important of
all-and I think this is the item that, for
both us and for them, led us to conclude
that now was the time for a summit meet-
ing-we have had an agreement on Berlin.
The Berlin negotiations, of course, are not
completely wrapped up; but on the part
of the Soviet Union and the United
States and, of course, the other two powers
involved, this agreement had historic
significance.
In view of the progress that we have
made, Mr. Gromyko, speaking for his
Government, I, speaking for ours, agreed
on the occasion of his visit that this was
the time for a summit meeting.
DATES OF SUMMIT MEETINGS
go
[6.] Q. Mr. President, this then was
the reason you announced you would
to Peking before May? You had this May
date in mind at that time?
THE PRESIDENT. No, Mr. Theis [J. Wil-
liam Theis, Hearst Newspapers and
Hearst Headline Service], when we an-
nounced that we would be going to
Peking, we did not have an understanding
with the Soviet Union that we were going
to have a visit to the Soviet Union. How-
ever, I should point out that as far as the
announcement with regard to the Soviet
summit is concerned, that the Government
of the People's Republic of China was in-
formed that this announcement would be
made today and is aware of the date of the
Soviet visit that I have mentioned, the lat-
ter part of May.
I should also point out that the Govern-
ment in Peking is aware of the fact that
we will be working toward agreement on
a date with them, which will be prior to
the meeting with the Soviet leaders.
TALKS WITH SOVIET LEADERS
[7.] Q. Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Horner [Garnett
D. Horner, Washington Evening Star].
Q. Mr. President, with which Soviet
leader do you expect to have your most
significant talks, Kosygin, Brezhnev, Pod-
gorny, or with all three of them or any two
of them?
THE PRESIDENT. Generally speaking, in
the Soviet system, the talks that take place
will, of course, cover all three, but the
Chairman, in this case Mr. Brezhnev, is
the man with whom I would expect to
have very significant talks. I would expect
certainly to have significant talks, also,
with Kosygin and perhaps Mr. Podgorny.
But in the Soviet system, as I pointed
out-the same is also true of the People's
Republic system-in any Communist
system, the Chairman of the Communist
Party is the man who is the major center
of
power.
DOMESTIC POLITICS AND THE SOVIET TRIP
[8.] Q. Mr. President, at the time that
the Red China trip was announced, sir, I
believe we were told that it was going to
be before May 1 because you didn't want
to get it involved in domestic political
politics. I wonder how this differs, since
1033
