Richard Nixon, 1971
Apr. 21 [148]
projects would be proposed by each. It
would look to these countries to select can-
didates to be trained under its program.
Its research activities would be located in
the lower income countries, rather than
in the United States, to the greatest extent
feasible. With its stress on institution
building, it would seek to ensure that each
program could be carried on after U.S.
assistance is ended.
Most importantly, the Institute would
seek to assure that all projects which it
helps finance are considered essential by
the lower income country itself. To do so,
the Institute would require that the re-
cipient country make a significant contri-
bution to each as evidence that it attaches
high priority to the project and is pre-
pared to support it financially after U.S.
assistance ends. We would finance a proj-
ect for only a definite and limited period
of time, and would want assurance that
the host country would then carry it on.
In the past, all too many technical as-
sistance projects have been undertaken
which were of more interest to Americans
than to the recipient countries, and had
little or no lasting impact. Our new pro-
gram is designed to ensure that this does
not happen in the future.
The international organizations are less
advanced in research and technical as-
sistance than in development lending. The
Institute would thus be unable to function
as fully within an international framework
at this time as would the Corporation.
However, it would work to help improve
the capabilities of these organizations,
especially the United Nations Develop-
ment Program, and would seek to coop-
erate with them whenever possible. In
fact, one of its objectives would be to help
create an international framework for
technical assistance comparable to the
framework which has developed over the
past decade for development lending.
By the very virtue of its separate exist-
ence, the Institute would be free to con-
centrate its efforts on the application of
research and technology to the problems
of development-a key feature of our new
bilateral program which would distinguish
it markedly from the present approach.
The Institute would also concentrate its
resources on the few most critical prob-
lem areas of development. Such concen-
tration is necessary if it is to achieve the
"critical mass" necessary to make real
breakthroughs where they are most
needed, and to attract the top cadre of
experts and managers who can achieve
such breakthroughs.
The areas of concentration would
evolve in response to the requests of the
lower income countries and management's
assessment of where we can contribute
most. They would undoubtedly shift over
time. Experience suggests that limiting
population growth, increasing agricultural
production and training manpower would
be among the concentration areas at first.
Unemployment and urbanization prob-
lems could be early additions to the list.
While the Institute would provide grant
financing, it would vary the effective terms
of its assistance by varying the shares of
the total cost of particular projects that
the recipient must finance itself-ranging
from a small percentage in the least ad-
vanced countries to most of the cost in
the most advanced. In addition, the Insti-
tute should have authority to provide ad-
visers on a completely reimbursable basis
to countries which no longer need conces-
sional aid at all. At the other end of the
development spectrum, the IDI would be
71-234-72-40
573
