[348] Nov. 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
this world to be independent of foreign
domination, and to the cause of peace.
We are bound together also by our de-
votion to humanitarian concerns.
I know that as you arrive here, your
heart is heavy because of various prob-
lems, but particularly more recently the
floods that have devastated parts of your
land. I can assure you that when a
tragedy occurs in India, the hearts of mil-
lions of Americans go out to your people.
Because we feel so close to you in those
humanitarian concerns, there is a very
special relationship between the 200 mil-
lion people of America and the 500 mil-
lion people of India.
Madam Prime Minister, today we stand
in Washington on November 4, a winter
day. In our country we call this kind of a
day, with the sun shining, "Indian sum-
mer." We feel that in a real sense this is
a day in which the sun shines on the
relations between our countries. I trust
that this is a good omen not only for the
talks that we will have, very significant
talks on very difficult problems affecting
both of our countries, but a good omen
for the future.
May the sun always shine on the rela-
tions between two peoples who share so
much in terms of common ideals: devo-
tion to peace, devotion to progress for all
people throughout this world, and par-
ticularly those in those lands that are
newly developing, and devotion to the
cause of freedom and independence which
you so magnificently represent.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:16 a.m. on
the South Lawn at the White House where
Prime Minister Gandhi was given a formal
welcome with full military honors.
The Prime Minister responded as follows:
Mr. President, Mrs. Nixon:
It is a pleasure to be in Washington and to
meet you and Mrs. Nixon once again. I am
grateful for your invitation which has made this
visit possible.
It has not been easy to get away at a time
when India is beleaguered. To the natural
calamities of drought, flood, and cyclone has
been added a manmade tragedy of vast propor-
tions. I am haunted by the tormented faces in
our overcrowded refugee camps reflecting the
grim events which have compelled the exodus of
these millions from East Bengal.
I have come here looking for a deeper under-
standing of the situation in our part of the
world, in search of some wise impulse which, as
history tells us, has sometimes worked to save
humanity from despair. I look forward to our
discussions. I have no doubt that they will lead
to the strengthening of friendship and under-
standing between our two nations, and to a
lightening of our path as we work together for
peace in Asia and the world.
We share a community of ideals, and there is
no real conflict of interests between us. Our
people value your friendship. They have great
admiration for the spirit of quest of the Amer-
ican people, for their desire to reach beyond the
immediate.
I bring to you, Mr. President, and to the
people of America, the greetings of the Govern-
ment and the entire people of India, and I fully
and sincerely support the desire which you have
expressed that the sun may always shine on our
friendship and that we may always work for
those ideals which our people and our countries
have cherished through the years.
Thank you.
1080
