[31] Jan. 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
I urge the 92nd Congress to seize this
opportunity, and to make the bold deci-
sions necessary to achieve this goal.
The White House
January 28, 1971
RICHARD NIXON
32 Remarks at the Swearing
Secretary of the Interior.
WE WILL now have the swearing in of
the new Secretary of the Interior.
And before the ceremony takes place, I
should like to point out that it is a happy
coincidence that Mr. Justice Stewart, who
will swear in the new Secretary of the
Interior, Rogers Morton, was a classmate
of the new Secretary of the Interior at
Yale a few years ago.
[At this point, Potter Stewart, Associate Justice
of the Supreme Court of the United States,
administered the oath of office. The President
then resumed speaking.]
It shows you these Yale men can read,
anyway.
Mr. Vice President, Mr. Justice
Stewart, members of the Cabinet, Mr.
Former Secretary Udall, all of the dis-
tinguished guests who are gathered here
today:
I would like to speak just briefly in this
historic room on this very special occasion
of the swearing in of a new Secretary of
the Interior, because I think it is appro-
priate to point out how the position now
has far more meaning even than it had
then during the period of Theodore
Roosevelt's bringing such great interest
in this subject to all of the American
people.
Theodore Roosevelt was known as the
man who was the great conservationist,
and he was a great conservationist because
NOTE: On the same day, the White House
released the transcript of a news briefing on
draft reform by Roger T. Kelley, Assistant Sec-
retary of Defense for Manpower and Reserve
Affairs, and Curtis W. Tarr, Director of Selec-
tive Service.
In of Rogers C. B. Morton as
January 29, 1971
he deeply believed in conserving the nat-
ural resources of this country, the beauty
of America.
He was a man of the outdoors; he loved
the outdoors. He was a man of the West;
he traveled extensively through the West.
And some way his spirit was contagious.
Americans who never got to the West, and
most didn't, Americans who never visited
a park, and the great majority never did
or never have even today, some way were
inspired by Theodore Roosevelt, the great
conservationist of 70 years ago.
Now we are swearing in a new Secre-
tary of the Interior. I could refer to him,
too, as being a man of the outdoors, which
he is. I can refer to him, too, as one who
loves the West, which he does, and he
travels much through the West.
But the position is different. The charge
that I give to the new Secretary of the
Interior is not just conservation. That is
perhaps a part of the job, a very impor-
tant part, conserving what we have. But
the charge is restoration, restoration of the
beauty of this country which has been so
marred by what we have done to it in
these recent years.
Restoration and also relevancy; and by
relevancy-this is something that I
touched upon very briefly in the State of
the Union. Having those magnificent
parks in the West, which I have been to,
78
