[143] Apr. 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
and assess the damage man has inflicted
upon the earth's atmosphere.
I am pleased to report that the
program is making significant progress
which will enhance the comfort, health,
safety and economic well-being of men
everywhere:
-Satellite technology is being used
with increasing effectiveness to
gather global information for earlier,
more accurate predictions and warn-
ings of hazardous weather.
----New stations are being established
for long-term measurement of at-
mospheric change.
-Computers have been programmed
to determine the effect of pollution
upon the atmosphere.
-A major international experiment in
the Atlantic Ocean is being prepared
under the Global Atmospheric Re-
search Program. During the past
year many nations, including the
United States, have indicated their
support of this tropical experiment
and have made tentative commit-
ments to provide ships, aircraft, satel-
lites, and other observing facilities.
Linked with an increased computer
capability to assess and integrate re-
sults, this experiment should be an
important step toward attaining a
true understanding of the global
atmosphere.
The scientific understanding which will
be developed by the World Weather
Program is critical to the solution of
environmental problems which are of im-
mense concern to all nations.
Senate Concurrent Resolution 67 of
the 90th Congress recognizes the impor-
tance of vigorous U.S. participation in
the World Weather Program. In accord-
ance with that resolution, I am trans-
mitting this annual report, describing the
most significant activities of the program
and the planned participation of Federal
agencies in the program for the coming
fiscal year.
The White House
April 15, 1971
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The message is printed in "World
Weather Program, Plan for Fiscal Year 1972"
(Government Printing Office, 29 pp.).
144 Panel Interview at the Annual Convention of the
American Society of Newspaper Editors.
April 16, 1971
THE PRESIDENT. [1.] President Noyes,
President-elect McKnight,ยน all of the dis-
tinguished guests at the head table, and
all of the distinguished delegates and
ยน Newbold Noyes, Jr., editor of the Wash-
ington Star, was president of the American
Society of Newspaper Editors, and C. A. (Pete)
McKnight, editor of the Charlotte, N.C., Ob-
server, was vice president and president-elect
of the Society.
members of the ASNE:
It is a very great privilege for me to
appear again before this organization, as
the president indicated a few moments
ago,
for the first time in my new capacity.
I also wish to congratulate President
Newby Noyes on his service as president
of this organization.
I understand you have a one-term tra-
dition. I am not sure that is a good idea-
534
