Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 18 [66]
opment of the atomic breakthrough. I
could mention the great leaders of busi-
ness, the fact that the largest bank in the
world and in the United States was
founded by Italians in my home State, in
California, and a representative of that
family is here tonight.
I could mention the fact that in the
field of sports that we, a sports-minded
country, have revered many, but none
perhaps in our time has reached that
pinnacle of admiration that a man of
Italian background, Vince Lombardi,
reached when he died just a few months
ago, not because he was just a great coach,
but because he had character, that genius
of the Italian spirit which Woodrow
Wilson referred to so eloquently 51 years
ago.
And, of course, I could refer, Mr. Prime
Minister, to the field of politics. Here we
can be completely bipartisan. We can
speak of Senator Pastore. We can speak
in our Cabinet of the Secretary of Trans-
portation, former Governor of Massachu-
setts John Volpe, who has worked with
great devotion for his country and for
better relations between all nations.
What I am simply saying is that on
this occasion, we thank you for coming
to our country, for giving us the oppor-
tunity to express America's appreciation
to Italy for what you have contributed to
us, your country, what your people of
Italian background have contributed to
America, and also, to say, in response,
that we treasure our relationship with
your country in the modern day.
Italy and America are friends. We are
partners together in the great Atlantic
Alliance. And we recognize that in this
world today, we have no better friend
than Italy.
And speaking personally, I can say to
this company that I have no better per-
sonal friend, as well as official friend, than
Prime Minister Colombo.
After that applause, Mr. Prime Min-
ister, you should come here and run for
something.
I simply want to say that we recognize
that the Prime Minister has devoted his
life to the service of his country, that he
now, as we do, has problems to which he
applies enormous diligence and dedica-
tion and devotion, and for this we admire
him. And for that reason, because of our
affection for the country that he repre-
sents, for the people and the tradition
that he represents, and also because of
our respect and admiration for him as a
person and as a world leader, I know all
of you
will want to join me in raising your
glasses to the Prime Minister of Italy.
The Prime Minister.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:58 p.m. in
the State Dining Room at the White House.
See also Item 62.
Prime Minister Colombo responded in Ital-
ian. A translation of his remarks follows:
Mr. President:
The warmth of your words and the cordiality
and the friendly welcome which you have ex-
tended to me and also some of the things I
have read on this little card here in front of
me, lead me to be so presumptuous as to think
that perhaps you wanted to make this an extra
Columbus Day without regard to the date.
I see here salmon from the Columbia River. I
think I see something here. Then the filet
mignon Potenza. That is where I was born.
THE PRESIDENT. If I may break protocol and
interrupt the Prime Minister, I would say we
changed Washington's Birthday-in honor of
the Prime Minister, we change Columbus Day
to the day of his visit.
THE PRIME MINISTER. I know, Mr. Presi-
dent, that the warm friendship that you express
and that of all the American people, and that
is manifest to me in the presence of all these
other guests here tonight, is not directed to-
191
