[131] Apr. 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
ences. I could speak about new methods
of financing, all of these things. But what
does it mean? How do you know that I
mean it, that our country means it, in a
very personal way?
Now, I have to turn, really, to an ex-
perience my wife had to illustrate it. A
few months ago she went to Peru. It was
a time of great tragedy, Mr. Ambassador,
for Peru. It is no secret around this table
that the Government of the United States
had very significant differences with the
Government of Peru, but believe me, the
people of the United States have no dif-
ferences with the people of Peru.
My wife went there, and she came back
with memories of the wonderful people
that she saw in a period of tragedy-still
proud, still strong, still determined to
stand on their feet, welcoming assistance
from abroad, but not being completely
dependent upon that assistance.
What I am trying to say to all of
you
here tonight very simply is this: that we
in this house do not consider we have a
special relationship with our friends in the
American family because you are closest
to us, and, therefore, very important to us,
which you are, but that the relationship
is personal going back over so many years,
personal going back over so many mem-
ories, personal in the sense that when
something happens, a tragedy in your
house, it also happens in our house. You
feel it in your hearts. We feel it in ours.
When there is happiness in your house or
in your country, we feel happiness in ours.
That is the personal message I would
convey to you tonight.
In that spirit, because I cannot toast all
of the countries that are represented here
and their heads of government, and not all
the ambassadors and other distinguished
people that are represented here, I am
going to propose the toast tonight to the
dean of the diplomatic corps because—not
to tell this group who know his record-it
is quite unusual, quite unusual in the sense
that he has been dean of the diplomatic
corps longer than anybody in history. He
has lived through, as dean, six Presidents
and nine Chiefs of Protocol, nine Secre-
taries of State-that shows who lives
longest in this business-four Speakers
and four Chief Justices.
Any man who can survive that long has
to be quite a man.
To my personal friend, your personal
friend, the friend of the Americas, the
dean of the diplomatic corps, Ambassador
Sevilla-Sacasa.
The dean.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:44 p.m. in
the State Dining Room at the White House.
Ambassador Sevilla-Sacasa responded as
follows:
Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen:
I have the honor to propose a toast to the
President of the United States of America and
Mrs. Nixon: To the President and Mrs. Nixon.
Mr. President, the Chiefs of Mission of the
Americas and the Ambassadors, representatives
of those republics to the Organization of Ameri-
can States, as well as our wives, are very grate-
ful to Your Excellency and the First Lady,
Mrs. Nixon, for the tribute you are so gra-
ciously rendering to us tonight at the White
House.
The kindness of your invitation, Mr. Presi-
dent, the hospitable atmosphere of the White
House, the elegance of your table, the kindness
of your words, the presence of the Secretary of
State and other distinguished personalities of
your Government enhance our rejoicing
tonight.
Today, Mr. President, as on many previous
occasions, we are most pleased to be enjoying
your lavish hospitality. Just last February 8,
the Chiefs of Mission and our wives enjoyed
the elegant reception you offered in our honor
at the White House-an unforgettable night,
Mr. President.
510
