Richard Nixon, 1971
[318]
Oct. I
The protocol, embodying a proposed
amendment to Article 50(a) of the con-
vention, enlarges the membership of the
Council of the International Civil Avia-
tion Organization from 27 to 30.
I also transmit herewith, for the infor-
mation of the Senate, the report of the
318
Secretary of State regarding the protocol.
The White House
September 30, 1971
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The text of the protocol and the report
of the Secretary of State are printed in Senate
Executive K (92d Cong., 1st sess.).
Statement About Additional Funds for Humanitarian
Relief and Refugee Rehabilitation in South Asia.
October 1, 1971
I AM today requesting the Congress to
appropriate additional funds to meet
human needs in South Asia. The United
States has been deeply concerned over the
situation in South Asia, both on humani-
tarian grounds and because of the impli-
cations for peace.
Recent events in East Pakistan, com-
pounding the destruction from natural
disasters, have led to widespread human
suffering. Unchecked, this situation could
drift toward greater disaster in the form
of famine or even war. It is a primary
objective of the Administration to relieve
suffering and help avert such a situation.
Acting on its mandate as the conscience
of the world community, the United
Nations, under the leadership of the Sec-
retary General, has focused concern on the
plight of those who are caught in this
situation. Through its special missions in
Dacca and New Delhi, the United Nations
has also provided the operational frame-
work for channeling relief supplies to the
millions who need them both in India and
in East Pakistan.
Many countries and private donors are
responding to this enormous challenge.
The United States has already provided
substantial amounts of food and foreign
exchange to support the programs of the
United Nations in aid of the millions of
refugees in India and the millions who
could face starvation in East Pakistan.
But more needs to be done by the
United States and by other donors. The
costs of dealing with this problem through
this fiscal year are expected to be over a
billion dollars-far beyond the means of
India and Pakistan. The House of Repre-
sentatives early recognized the need for
unusual humanitarian relief for South
Asia and on August 3, 1971, authorized
$100 million in additional funds under the
Foreign Assistance Act. Since that time,
however, the magnitude of the need has
grown. It is also important that we be able
to play our proper role promptly if con-
tingencies in the relief operation arise.
I therefore urge that, in addition to
completing action on the House initiative,
the Congress authorize and appropriate
an additional sum of $150 million for the
relief and rehabilitation of refugees from
East Pakistan and for humanitarian relief
in East Pakistan under the Foreign Assist-
ance Act. Together with food supplied
under Public Law 480, these funds will
enable us to do our share in mitigating the
effects of this human crisis, and thus
1017
