Richard Nixon, 1971
Dec. 29 [417]
in congratulating the Nobel Prize winner
for 1971.
I hope and I believe that the talks that
we have had, covering the whole range
of world affairs, will contribute to peace
in the years ahead for our two countries
and for the world.
We are very complimented that you
have chosen Florida for a brief vacation.
We hope the waters are peaceful and that
the fishing is good.
NOTE: The President spoke at his home in Key
Biscayne, Fla.
On December 28, 1971, the President greeted
Chancellor Brandt at a formal arrival cere-
mony at Homestead Air Force Base, Fla. On
the same day, the President hosted a working
dinner at his Key Biscayne residence for the
Chancellor.
Following the President's remarks, Chancel-
lor Brandt responded as follows:
Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, ladies and
gentlemen:
I am most grateful to President Nixon that
he gave us, Foreign Minister Scheel and me,
the chance to meet and discuss, in all frank-
ness, problems of common interest, our common
position and responsibilities within the Atlantic
Alliance, future relations between the enlarg-
ing European Community and the United
States, East-West problems, and other problems
of common concern.
Mr. President, you should know that we in
Germany regard the United States as our not
only most powerful but also, for other reasons,
most important partner abroad, and we will
do all we can to strengthen the ties of friend-
ship which have been developed over the years.
I think in spite of many difficulties in one
part of the world and the other, in 1971 we
have made some progress in trying to make
peace safer, and I think there is a chance that
you and we, together with our friends, can
make even better progress in 1972, without
having any illusions and without underestimat-
ing the difficulties which are still ahead of us.
Thank you very much for your hospitality,
Mr. President. And as far as my vacation is
concerned, it is true that I will concentrate
on fishing for a few days ahead of us. I have
been in the States many times-only the sec-
ond time I have been in Florida. And I am
happy I can be back here in this wonderful part
of the United States.
Thank you very much, Mr. President.
417 Remarks in an Informal Exchange With German
Correspondents Who Accompanied Chancellor Brandt
on His Visit to the United States.
December 29, 1971
THE PRESIDENT. The Chancellor invited
me to the Olympic Games.
Q. We would like to have you there.
THE PRESIDENT. I remember my visit
to Munich in '56. I was there then, after
being in Austria, to meet with the Hun-
garian refugees. It is one of the most, I
think, exciting cities in the world.
It was Christmastime, just before
Christmas. There was snow. I remember
the decorations, the music, and I remem-
ber I said, “Look, I want to visit❞—they
wanted to give this big, fancy party. I said,
"No, I want to go to one of those famous
Munich beer halls, the Hofbräu," and I
have a mug from there, from that. That
was when I was Vice President. So I want
to go back to Munich sometime.
Q. Are you going to the Olympics?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I am going to
be a little busy at that time of the year.
Q. Why? [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. I will probably be
watching some of it on television here, of
1215
