Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 25 [73]
our future agenda as we work with others
to build a stable world order?
In Western Europe, we have shifted
from predominance to partnership with
our allies. Our ties with Western Europe
are central to the structure of peace
be-
cause its nations are rich in tradition and
experience, strong economically, vigorous
in diplomacy and culture; they are in a
position to take a major part in building a
world of peace.
Our ties were strengthened on my sec-
ond trip to Europe this summer and re-
flected in our close consultation on arms
control negotiations. At our suggestion,
the NATO alliance made a thorough re-
view of its military strategy and posture.
As a result, we have reached new agree-
ment on a strong defense and the need to
share the burden more fairly.
In Eastern Europe, our exchange of
state visits with Romania and my meet-
ing last fall with Marshal Tito in Yugo-
slavia are examples of our search for
wider reconciliation with the nations that
used to be considered behind an Iron
Curtain.
Looking ahead in Europe:
-We shall cooperate in our political
and economic relations across the
Atlantic as the Common Market
grows.
-We and our allies will make the im-
provements necessary to carry out our
common defense strategy.
-Together we stand ready to reduce
forces in Western Europe in ex-
change for mutual reductions in
Eastern Europe.
The problems of Africa are great, but
so is her potential. The United States will
support her peoples' efforts to build a
continent that provides social justice and
economic expansion.
Turning to our own hemisphere: In
Latin America, there was too much ten-
dency in the past to take our closest friends
and neighbors for granted. Recently, we
have paid new respect to their proud
traditions. Our trade, credit, and eco-
nomic policies have been reexamined and
reformed to respond to their concerns and
their ideas, as well as to our own interests.
Our new Latin American policy is de-
signed to help them help themselves; our
new attitude will not only aid their prog-
ress but add to their dignity.
Great changes are brewing throughout
the American hemisphere. We can have
no greater goal than to help provide the
means for necessary change to be accom-
plished in peace and for all change to be
in the direction of greater self-reliance.
Turning to the Far East: a new Asia is
emerging. The old enmities of World War
II are dead or dying. Asian states are
stronger and are joining together in
vigorous regional groupings.
Here the doctrine that took shape last
year is taking hold today, helping to spur
self-reliance and cooperation between
states. In Japan, South Korea, Thailand,
and the Philippines, we have consolidated
bases and reduced American forces. We
have relaxed trade and travel restrictions
to underline our readiness for greater con-
tact with Communist China.
Looking ahead in that area:
-While continuing to help our friends
help themselves, we must begin to
consider how regional associations
can work together with the major
powers in the area for a durable
peace.
-We will work to build a strong part-
nership with Japan that will accom-
modate our mutual interests.
-We will search for consecutive dis-
215
