Richard Nixon, 1971
Nov. 2 [346]
who do will receive recognition for their
constructive and responsible contributions.
The program will be administered
locally-assuring that the efforts of our
young people will be relevant to individual
community needs and special problems. It
is my sincere hope that every high school
principal in America will share en-
thusiastically in the program-in the same
fine spirit of its theme: "Life-pass it on.
NOTE: On the same day, the White House re-
leased a fact sheet and the transcript of a news
briefing, held on October 29, 1971, by William
D. Ruckelshaus, Administrator, Environmental
Protection Agency, on the new awards pro-
gram.
345 Remarks Following a Meeting With Prime Minister
William McMahon of Australia.
THE MEETING lasted an hour and a
half. The Prime Minister, as you know,
was a former Foreign Minister and has a
very broad understanding of world prob-
lems, and naturally a great part of our
discussions dealt with bilateral problems.
I was interested in getting his analysis
of the initiatives that we have taken on
the world scene and his analysis of recent
events.
It was a very helpful conversation from
my standpoint, and I trust it was for him.
We covered the whole range of activities,
not only between our two countries but
also on the world scene, with particular
emphasis on our continuing commitments
under the ANZUS Treaty.
November 2, 1971
I can speak with some feeling about
that, because I was in Australia in 1967—
and I, of course, was there for the first
time in 1953-and I believe that this
treaty, which makes the American com-
mitment to that part of the world firm, is
one of the fundamental pillars of our
policy of peace in the Pacific. I was glad
to be able to reiterate to the Prime Min-
ister, as he did to me, our joint support
of that treaty and its commitment.
I will cover the rest in my toast tonight.
NOTE: The President spoke at approximately
12:25 p.m. on the South Grounds at the White
House following the Prime Minister's departure
after their initial meeting.
346 Toasts of the President and Prime Minister McMahon
of Australia. November 2, 1971
Mr. Prime Minister and Mrs. McMahon,
and
distinguished guests from
Australia, and our distinguished guests
from the United States:
We are delighted and honored to wel-
come the Prime Minister of Australia here
tonight, along with his wife and the mem-
bers of their party. We have tried to make
you
all feel very much at home, Mr. Prime
Minister, and as you will note as we came
into the White House an Australian song
was being played by the Marine orchestra,
and I understand the last song that was
played by the Strolling Strings of the
Army was an American song, which was
played, Mrs. McMahon tells me, on the
night that you proposed to her.
This may give you an idea of the very
special feeling we have for our distin-
guished guest, for his leadership in the
1073
