[342] Oct. 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
unique because of the position that he
has held.
In proposing a toast to him tonight, I
can refer to him as the President of a
friendly country, I can refer to him as a
leader in war, but I think that he would
prefer to be referred to as one who is a
leader in peace.
I know that all in this room, including
the several of our guests from America
who have backgrounds-as do so many
millions of Americans-from Yugoslavia,
that all of you will want to join me in
the toast that I will propose not just to
the man, President Tito,
President Tito, a world re-
nowned figure, but to a country of brave
people and courageous people with whom
we are fortunate to have friendly rela-
tions, and to the future of that country
and all countries like it in the world.
They may not be large in terms of ter-
ritory, they may not be numerous in
terms of numbers, but they are proud,
they cherish their independence, and they
have a right to that independence. We
respect it.
To the man who stands for the right of
every country in the world to choose its
own way, to have its own policy, the man
who stands for independence and peace
in the world, President Tito, I propose
his toast tonight.
To President Tito and Madam Broz.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:05 p.m. in
the State Dining Room at the White House.
See also Items 340 and 343.
President Tito responded in Serbo-Croatian.
His remarks were translated by an interpreter
as follows:
Mr. President, Mrs. Nixon, ladies and
gentlemen:
It is with particular pleasure that I have
responded to your cordial invitation to pay
my first state visit to the United States of
America. On behalf of my wife, my associates,
and in my own name, I wish to thank you
sincerely for the warm words you have ad-
dressed to us. We are greatly honored by this
distinguished gathering in the famous building
in which so many of the architects of your
country have lived and have been engaged in
creative activity.
This, Mr. President, is my second meeting
with you. I also had the pleasure of meeting
Presidents Eisenhower and Kennedy. Meetings
at the highest level between our two countries
have already become a tradition and are a
reflection of good and friendly relations, as
well as of the constant concern shown by our
two governments for such meetings.
Your exceptionally significant visit to Yugo-
slavia has raised relations between our two
countries to a higher level. You have deeply
impressed us by your broad interest in the in-
tensive development of these relations, and
by your efforts to promote meaningful coopera-
tion. It is also our desire that these relations
should be constantly expanded, and that our
cooperation should be further enriched and
expanded. In this connection, I have in mind
consultations and exchanges of views in the
context of our joint efforts to solve international
problems, more developed economic coopera-
tion, and new projects in the scientific, cultural,
and other fields.
Constant progress in our relations has been
due precisely to the fact that they have always
been founded on equal rights and mutual re-
spect, and that, on this basis, we have been
successful in discovering new possibilities for
their development. Relations built on such
foundations correspond best to the interests of
our two countries and constitute, at the same
time, a contribution by Yugoslavia and the
United States of America, with all their specific
features, to international cooperation in
general.
Mr. President, I have always been impressed
by the results of the dynamic development of
your country. The great achievements of the
American people, who are about to celebrate
the 200th anniversary of their revolution and
independence, have meant much for the gen-
eral progress of mankind. The United States
has made, and is making, a major contribution
to the solution of many problems facing man,
the citizens and producers of material goods.
Important processes and reforms are under-
1068
