Richard Nixon, 1971
Dec. 23 [409]
lation I have signed as President of the
United States-can mean new hope and
comfort in the years ahead for millions of
people in this country and around the
world.
The enactment of this legislation cul-
minates a yearlong effort to launch an un-
precedented attack against cancer. I called
for such a program in my State of the
Union Message in January 1971, and I
expanded on that call in my special mes-
sage to the Congress concerning health on
February 18. Early in May, I submitted to
the Congress very specific proposals for a
cancer cure program
proposals which
are reflected in all important respects in
the legislation I have signed today.
--
The effort to mobilize a concerted
national campaign against cancer has con-
tinued to make significant progress since
those proposals were submitted. One of
the most important steps was the approval
by the Congress of the additional $100
million I requested to support an ex-
panded attack on cancer. This additional
$100 million, when added to the regular
appropriation for this fiscal year, gives the
national cancer program a current oper-
ating level of $337.5 million, compared to
only $180 million during the first half of
fiscal year 1972. Another important com-
ponent in our campaign was put in place
in October when I announced that the
bacteriological warfare research facili-
ties at Fort Detrick, Maryland, would be
converted into a leading center for cancer
research.
Now this year of preparation for an
all-out assault on cancer comes to a climax
with the signing of the National Cancer
Act. The new organizational structure
which this legislation establishes will en-
able us to mobilize far more effectively
both our human and our financial re-
sources in the fight against this dread
disease.
I appreciate deeply the months of hard
and careful effort which so many Mem-
bers of the Congress gave to this cause.
I am especially pleased that the new na-
tional cancer program incorporates the
basic recommendations I made last May.
It allows the President to appoint the
Director of the National Cancer Institute
and provides that the budget of the Na-
tional Cancer Institute be submitted di-
rectly to the President. It creates a
3-member President's Cancer Panel to
monitor its development and execution
on a regular basis and a 23-member Na-
tional Cancer Advisory Board to offer gen-
eral guidance. Both of these groups are
to be appointed by the President and will
report directly to him. The important re-
sult of all these provisions is to place the
full weight of the Presidency behind the
national cancer program. As I recom-
mended in May, the President will be able
to take personal command of the Federal
effort to conquer cancer so that its activi-
ties need not be stymied by the familiar
dangers of bureaucracy and redtape.
Having asked for this authority-and
this responsibility-I now pledge to exer-
cise it to the fullest. Biomedical research
is, of course, a notoriously uncertain en-
terprise, and its rate of progress cannot be
predicted with confidence. But I can say
with the greatest confidence that there will
be no uncertainty about the Government's
role in this effort. I am determined that
the Federal will and Federal resources will
be committed as effectively as possible to
the campaign against cancer and that
nothing will be allowed to compromise
that commitment.
I make this statement with even greater
confidence knowing that Benno C.
1207
