Richard Nixon, 1971
Mar. 25 [116]
tempts to fill. At other times, various
Federal authorities act as rivals, com-
peting with one another for the same
piece of "turf."
Sometimes one agency will actually
duplicate the work of another; for in-
stance, the same locality may receive two
or more grants for the same project. On
other occasions, Federal offices will actu-
ally find themselves working at cross pur-
poses with one another; one agency will
try to preserve a swamp, for example,
while another is seeking to drain it. In
an effort to minimize such problems, gov-
ernment officials must spend enormous
amounts of time and energy negotiating
with one another that should be directed
toward meeting people's needs. And even
when they are able to work out their
differences, officials often reach compro-
mise solutions which merely represent
the lowest common denominator of their
original positions. Bold and original ideas
are thus sacrificed in the quest for intra-
governmental harmony.
Scattered responsibility also contributes
to the over-centralization of public de-
cision making. Because competing offices
are often in different chains of command,
it is frequently impossible for them to
resolve their differences except by re-
ferring them to higher authorities, a proc-
ess which can mean interminable delays.
In an attempt to provide a means for
resolving such differences and for pro-
viding needed coordination, an entire
new layer of bureaucracy has emerged at
the interagency level. Last year, the Office
of Management and Budget counted
some 850 interagency committees. Even
so, there are still many occasions when
only the White House itself can resolve
such interjurisdictional disputes. Too
many questions thus surface at the Presi-
dential level that should be resolved at
levels of Government closer to the scene
of the action.
Inefficient organization at the Federal
level also undermines the effectiveness of
State and local governments. Mayors and
Governors waste countless hours and dol-
lars touching base with a variety of Fed-
eral offices-each with its own separate
procedures and its own separate policies.
Some local officials are so perplexed by
the vast array of Federal programs in a
given problem area that they miss out
on the very ones that would be most help-
ful to them. Many State and local gov-
ernments find they must hire expensive
specialists to guide them through the jun-
gles of the Federal bureaucracy.
If it is confusing for lower levels of
government to deal with this maze of
Federal offices, that challenge can be even
more bewildering for individual citizens.
Whether it is a doctor seeking aid for a
new health center, a businessman trying
to get advice about selling in foreign mar-
kets, or a welfare recipient going from one
office to another in order to take full
advantage of Federal services, the people
whom the Government is supposed to be
serving are often forced to weave their
way through a perplexing obstacle course
as a condition of receiving help.
THE HOBBLING OF ELECTED LEADERSHIP
Perhaps the most significant conse-
quence of scattered responsibility in the
executive branch is the hobbling effect it
has on elected leadership—and, there-
fore, on the basic principles of democratic
government. In our political system, when
the people identify a problem they elect
to public office men and women who
promise to solve that problem. If these
71-234-72——34
477
