[273] Aug. 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
$75 million to $200 million-an almost
threefold expansion. The main emphasis
of the new HUD program will be on pro-
viding parks and open space in urban
areas, where most people live, and espe-
cially in the inner cities, where the short-
age of recreation facilities is now most
critical.
It has been estimated that some 75
percent of all outdoor recreation enjoyed
by Americans takes place within a short
distance of their homes. That is why I be-
lieve so strongly that we should be doing
far more to bring our parks to the people.
The Congress has thus far appropriated
only $100 million for the HUD program.
Finally, I would point to my establish-
ment of the Federal Property Review
Board, which evaluates federally owned
properties in order to determine whether
they can be converted to park use. Close
to 100 such properties have already been
identified, and 24 of these, containing
more than 5,000 acres, are now in the
process of being conveyed by the Depart-
ment of the Interior to local and State
agencies. Mrs. Nixon has sought to en-
courage this important effort during her
trip across the country this week.
Many of the properties which have
been released under this program are
within easy reach of our larger urban
areas. To augment these efforts, we are
also preparing a number of amendments
to the Federal Income Tax Code which
would facilitate charitable donations of
property for conservation purposes. I
hope to present these proposals to the
Congress in the near future.
The combined effect of all these activi-
ties will be to provide that full range
of outdoor experiences which our dy-
namic population requires. For some, this
program will provide neighborhood parks
in the city. For others, it will offer a
pleasant setting for a weekend retreat, for
an afternoon bike ride, or for a family
vacation. For still others, it will provide
the chance truly to escape into the
wilderness.
I believe our Nation can afford to
make these opportunities available. In
fact, it is my view that we cannot afford
not to provide them. For such a program
can significantly enhance the quality of
our Nation's life and spirit-both now
and for future generations.
NOTE: The statement was released at Grand
Teton National Park, Wyo.
On the same day, the White House released
a fact sheet on the "Legacy of Parks" program.
274 Remarks at the Veterans of Foreign Wars Annual
Convention, in Dallas, Texas. August 19, 1971
Commander in Chief Rainwater, Mem-
bers of the Senate, Members of the House
of Representatives, all of the distinguished
guests on the platform, and all of the
distinguished guests in the audience:
It is a very great honor for me to
address this encampment of the Veterans
of Foreign Wars, and to think back over
the
years that I have had the opportunity
to appear before you on other occasions.
I am most grateful for the reception you
have given me, but particularly for the
very warm introduction which I have re-
ceived from my fellow Californian, your
Commander in Chief.
I want to, in return, say a word to you
908
