Richard Nixon, 1971
Oct. 22 [338]
the first ranks of all the nations of the
world, the strongest nation in the world
militarily, the richest nation economically.
But let me leave this great lesson with
this group of women of America: As we
look at the civilizations of the past, many
that were strong militarily and rich eco-
nomically were destroyed. And they were
destroyed from within because they had
lost that strength of spirit, that faith, that
idealism, that patriotism that is essen-
tial-love of country-for a country to
survive.
Let's not let that happen in America.
Today, therefore, as you go back to
your cities, remember: You are working
for a generation of peace. You are work-
ing for a strong America that can keep
that peace, strong militarily. You are
working for a strong America economi-
cally in which our young people can
look forward to employment without the
cost of war and without inflation. These
are great goals.
But also remember that the greatest
service that you can render is to help to
reinstill in America's young people a love
of country, a faith in God, a faith in them-
selves that is essential if a nation is to be
truly a great nation.
We had it 200 years ago. We have had
it through most of our history. The great
question is: Now, as America becomes
rich and strong, are we going to lose it?
We must not let this happen. That is
why the theme "The Spirit of '76" is so
important.
From having raised this question,
don't get any idea that I have any doubts
about the faith in this country and "The
Spirit of '76." It is here, all right.
I was talking to an ambassador the
other day. He was a new ambassador. He
had just presented his credentials and he
came in to see me. He had had an oppor-
tunity to travel for 2 months around the
country. He said, "You know, Mr. Presi-
dent, I have been amazed by what I find
in the country." He said, "I am in Wash-
ington here and I have been reading the
papers and talking to my colleagues in
Washington and I get an entirely different
picture of America in Washington than I
get in the country. In the country there is
belief in this country. There is strength.
There is a different America out there
than there is here." And he is right.
This is no reflection on the city of Wash-
ington. We are proud of the fact, inci-
dentally, that we have now reduced crime
in the city of Washington, and this is no
longer the first city of the Nation in terms
of crime.
It simply means that in a nation's cap-
ital-and this is true in most nations' cap-
itals-you usually have emphasis on the
bad news, on what is wrong about the
country, and they pound it and pound it
and pound it because it is news, not be-
cause they are against the country.
But let me say this: Sometimes it is
essential, in order to keep your sense of
perspective, to leave Washington and go
out into the country. I am the first Presi-
dent to have visited all 50 States, and I am
glad that I have done it. Every visit has
given me a lift, given me hope and strength
to come back and do the job which is my
responsibility to do.
A woman from Virginia came to see me
a few months ago. She was a lovely lady,
about 75 years of age. She had stitched a
flag for me, an American flag. It had taken
her a year and 2 months to make. She told
me there were 78,000 individual stitches in
it. I said, "My, that must have been a
terrible burden, a terrible chore." And
this was her answer: She said, "No, Mr.
1061
