[88] Mar. 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
tlemen have participated, that in two re-
spects we would use airpower against the
North. One, that we would attack those
missile sites that fired at our planes, and
we have been doing that. We will con-
tinue to do that.
Second, that if I determined that in-
creased infiltration from North Vietnam
endangered our remaining forces in South
Vietnam at a time we were withdrawing,
I would order attacks on the supply routes,
on the infiltration routes, on the military
complexes, and I have done that in the
past. And I shall do so again if I determine
that such activities by North Vietnam may
endanger our remaining forces in South
Vietnam, particularly as we are
withdrawing.
Now, the third question is this one:
whether or not the United States, through
its airpower, might support a South Viet-
namese operation against North Vietnam.
And the answer to that is that no such
plan is under consideration in this
Government.
NORTH VIETNAMESE ANTIAIRCRAFT
MISSILES
[3] Q. Mr. President, on the subject
of enemy missiles, the North Vietnamese
seem to be using more and perhaps a dif-
ferent type of missile shooting at American
planes supporting the Laos operation.
I am wondering if this is of unusual
alarm to you and if you have any special
retaliation other than bombing that you
intend to take?
THE PRESIDENT. We are following that
very closely, and it is not unusually alarm-
ing. We expect the enemy to improve its
capabilities just as we improve ours. And
we are prepared to take the protective re-
action measures which will deal very ef-
fectively with it. But I can say it will not
be tit for tat.
THE PRESIDENT'S FOREIGN POLICY
ADVISERS
[4] Mr. Horner [Garnett D. Horner,
Washington Evening Star].
Q. In view of recent remarks by Sena-
tors Symington and Fulbright, can you
define for us the roles and the relative
influence in the formulation of foreign
policy of Secretary of State Rogers and of
Dr. Kissinger?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, Mr. Horner, you
have been around Washington even a lit-
tle longer than I have, and, as I am sure
you will agree, this game of trying to
divide the President from his Secretary of
State or to create a conflict between the
Secretary of State and whoever happens
to be the President's Adviser for National
Security Affairs has been going on for as
long as I can remember, and I understand
it has been going on long before I got
here.
I think that Senator Symington's attack
upon the Secretary frankly was a cheap
shot. I say that not in condemnation of
him for making the statement, but I say
it only because he knows the relationship
between Secretary Rogers and me. He
knows that Secretary Rogers is my oldest
and closest friend in the Cabinet. I have
known him for 24 years.
I not only respect his ability and take
his advice in the field of foreign policy;
I also ask his advice and often take it in
many domestic concerns as well. He is the
foreign policy adviser for the President.
He is the chief foreign policy spokesman
for the President. He participates in every
388
