[116] Mar. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
itself, would make it much easier for ap-
pointed officials to manage their agen-
cies and for both the President and the
Congress to see that their intentions are
carried out.
Toward this same end, I am recom-
mending to the Congress a number of
additional steps for bringing greater man-
agerial discipline into Government. In the
first place, I am proposing that the De-
partment Secretary and his office be con-
siderably strengthened so that the man
whom the President appoints to run a de-
partment has both the authority and the
tools to run it effectively. The Secretary
would be given important managerial
discretion that he does not always enjoy
today, including the ability to appoint
many key department officials, to delegate
authority to them and to withdraw or
change such delegations of authority, and
to marshal and deploy the resources at
his command so that he can readily focus
the talent available to him at the point of
greatest need.
Each of the new Secretaries would be
provided with a Deputy Secretary and
two Under Secretaries to help him meet
his responsibilities. In addition, each ma-
jor program area within a department
would be headed by a high-level adminis-
trator who would be responsible for ef-
fectively managing a particular group of
related activities. These officials would
be appointed by the President and their
appointments would be subject to Senate
confirmation.
It is my philosophy that we should give
clear assignments to able leaders-and
then be sure that they are equipped to
carry them out. As a part of this same
effort, we should do all we can to give
the best new management tools to those
who run the new departments. There is
no better time to introduce needed pro-
cedural changes within departments than
a time of structural change among depart-
ments. We can reap great benefits if we
take advantage of this opportunity by
implementing the most advanced tech-
niques and equipment for such tasks as
planning and evaluation, data collection,
systematic budgeting, and personnel
administration.
Finally, I would again stress in this
message as I have in my discussions of
revenue sharing-the importance of de-
centralizing government activities as
much as possible. As I have already ob-
served, the consolidation of domestic de-
partments would do a great deal to fa-
cilitate decentralization, since it would
produce fewer interagency disputes that
require resolution at higher levels. It is
also true, as many management experts
have pointed out, that as the reliability
and scope of information expand at
higher levels of government, officials can
delegate authority to lower levels with
greater confidence that it will be used
well.
In addition to the consolidation of func-
tions, I am also proposing a reform of the
field structures of the Federal Govern-
ment that would also promote decentrali-
zation. Each Department, for example,
would appoint a series of Regional Di-
rectors who would represent the Secretary
with respect to all Department activities
in the field. Planning, coordination and
the resolution of conflicts could thus be
more readily achieved without Washing-
ton's involvement, since there would be a
"Secretarial presence" at the regional
level. Further coordination at lower levels
of government would be provided by
486
