[137] Apr. 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
Johnson, Administrator of Veterans Affairs;
James F. Oates, Jr., Chairman, Jobs for Vet-
erans Program; Mayor Richard G. Lugar of
Indianapolis, Ind., cochairman, Veterans Edu-
cation and Training Action Committee
(VETAC); and Robert Penn, Vietnam veteran
from Buffalo, N.Y.
138 Statement Announcing Plans for a White House
Conference on the Future of the American
Business System. April 12, 1971
WE MUST become the managers of
change. The private enterprise system is
facing new challenges on every front. Cor-
porations are being called upon increas-
ingly to help provide solutions to complex
national, social, and economic problems.
Business, labor, and government must
work in partnership for the public good.
Plans must be made now to make the
most of the opportunities ahead. I feel
it is time for key leaders with an interest
in our industrial society to take a long
range look and develop policies that will
help shape that future. It is for this reason
that I am calling this White House
Conference.
NOTE: The statement was made available as
part of a White House release announcing the
President's call for a White House Conference
on "The Industrial World Ahead: A Look at
Business in 1990," to be held in Washington,
D.C., November 8-10, 1971.
The release noted that the Conference,
chaired by Secretary of Commerce Maurice H.
Stans and Secretary of Labor James D. Hodg-
son, would have four major themes: The Struc-
ture of the Private Enterprise System, Jobs
Ahead, Technology and Resources for Busi-
ness, and The Social Responsibility of Business.
Each theme would provide a focal point for
assessment of the challenges faced by American
business, and attempts would be made to pre-
sent suggestions for policy development to meet
those challenges.
The full text of the release is printed in the
Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents
(vol. 7, p. 627).
139 Statement Announcing Changes in Trade and Travel
Restrictions With the People's Republic of China.
April 14, 1971
IN MY second annual Foreign Policy
Report to the Congress on February 25,
1971, I wrote, "In the coming year I will
carefully examine what further steps we
might take to create broader opportunities
for contacts between the Chinese and
American peoples, and how we might
remove needless obstacles to the realiza-
tion of these opportunities."
I asked the Under Secretaries Com-
mittee of the National Security Council
to make appropriate recommendations to
bring this about.
After reviewing the resulting study and
recommendations, I decided on the fol-
lowing actions, none of which requires
new legislation or negotiations with the
People's Republic of China:
-The United States is prepared to ex-
pedite visas for visitors or groups of
530
