[75] Feb. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
boundaries drawn for the administrative
convenience of the former colonial powers.
Moreover, colonialism and racial injustice
in southern Africa continue to frustrate
the African sense of fulfillment.
These facts complicate the essential task
of clothing new political institutions with
authority. They make more difficult the
problem of working out stable relation-
ships among the nations of Africa, and
between Africa and the rest of the world.
They compound the exigent task of ob-
taining and applying the resources needed
for economic development.
The Nixon Doctrine's encouragement
of self-reliance has an immediate and
broad applicability in Africa. Africa has
depended less than other areas on Ameri-
can leadership and assistance, and its in-
stitutions and relationships were created
without our providing either the impetus
or the concept. In Africa, therefore, the
conflict between the application of our
new doctrine and the requirements of con-
tinuity are minimal. To an unusual degree,
our conception of the current realities is
unencumbered by the weight of previous
undertakings. Our freedom of decision is
not constrained by the demands, legal or
implicit, of past commitments and actions.
Within the framework of African
efforts, however, there are three primary
needs of the continent to which we can
contribute. Africa seeks peace, economic
development, and justice; and she seeks
our assistance in reaching those goals. It
is in our interest to respond as generously
as our resources permit.
PEACE
The major contribution we can make
to the peace of the continent is to support
the African effort to keep free of great
power rivalries and conflicts. Africa's un-
resolved problems should not be used as a
pretext for non-Africans to intervene.
African needs for assistance should not be
manipulated to establish an undue outside
influence. The nations of Africa need
tranquility and a chance to resolve their
own domestic and inter-African problems.
Conflict and involvement in Cold War
rivalries can only bring harm to Africa
and tragic delay in its progress.
For that reason, we seek no positions in
Africa which threaten the interests of
others. Nor can we condone activities by
others which have that effect. Therefore,
support for the inviolability of African
borders and the integrity of African states
is a cardinal point of American policy.
Clearly, our ability to adhere to this
posture of restraint is dependent upon
a similar posture by others. We believe
that the African nations themselves are
the best guarantors, as they are certainly
the prime beneficiaries, of such restraint.
DEVELOPMENT
The second great African need to
which we can contribute is economic de-
velopment. Africa must obtain material
resources and technology from abroad.
Multilateral and private investment
channels are, we believe, the most efficient
means to effect capital development. But
external resources can bring real progress
only if Africa's own human resources are
developed and mobilized for this effort.
It is in this area that we believe our bi-
lateral assistance programs can be most
effective. We therefore hope to contribute
to Africa's economic development in four
major ways:
-Our bilateral assistance programs in
the years ahead will concentrate on
282
