Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 25 [75]
Against this background, the United
States had no choice but to take further
steps to help maintain the military
balance.
Throughout most of 1969 we had at-
tempted to engage the Soviet Union in
developing a basis for Arab-Israeli
negotiations. Our talks with the Soviets
focussed particularly on three points:
-The need for an Arab commitment
to accept specific obligations in a
peace agreement with Israel.
-The need for an Israeli commitment
to withdraw from occupied terri-
tories as part of a binding peace
which establishes recognized and
secure boundaries.
-The need for both sides to enter a
genuine negotiating process to work
out the detailed terms of a peace set-
tlement between them.
The Soviets have persistently called for
an Israeli commitment to total with-
drawal from all occupied territories. The
Soviets have also called for a refugee set-
tlement which inadequately reflects the
practical human and security problems
involved on both sides. The United States
has recognized that any changes in pre-
war borders should be insubstantial, but
we insist that any agreement to fix final
borders must be directly linked in a peace
agreement to mutually agreed practical
arrangements that would make these
secure. These are matters for negotiation
between the parties. The Soviets have in-
sisted, however, that the major powers
make these judgments and, in effect, im-
pose them on the parties.
In June 1970, the USSR offered fur-
ther formulations on some of the obliga-
tions that all parties would undertake for
preventing hostile acts from their soil and
on the precise time when peace would
come into effect in relation to the with-
drawal of troops to final borders. But
these formulations, which were modifica-
tions of earlier Soviet proposals, came
belatedly and still failed to take into ac-
count the need for a negotiating process
engaging the parties themselves.
The U.S. continues to welcome Soviet
suggestions for a settlement. But to be
serious, they must meet the legitimate
concerns of not one but both sides.
NATIONALISM IN THE AREA
in re-
Apart from the Arab-Israeli conflict, a
strong Arab nationalism has grown
action to an era of outside political con-
trol which has now ended. It is nurtured
by a persistent yearning for unity among
Arab nations. But traditional and
ideological rivalries make it difficult for
Arabs to agree on the form their unity
should take. The attempts to fashion
unity, therefore, sharpen tensions.
At the heart of these disputes is a funda-
mental ideological disagreement on how
Arab society should respond to pressures
for rapid modernization. As a conse-
quence, some of the more militant forces
exploit issues of anti-imperialism and Arab
nationalism, even where these are not the
real issues. For their own nationalist or
ideological reasons, they seek to reduce
the U.S. position. The ironic result of
their action—if they succeeded-would
be to make the area once again more
vulnerable to outside domination.
Thus some political currents in the
area make it more difficult for the U.S.
to maintain, as we would wish to do, pro-
ductive relations with nations on both
sides of inter-Arab disputes. We will con-
tinue to maintain friendly relations with
all the countries of the area which wel-
291
