Richard Nixon, 1971
Jan. 22 [26]
proposed by a President of the United
States to expand the Nation's parks, rec-
reation areas, open spaces, in a way that
truly brings parks to the people where the
people are. For only if we leave a legacy of
parks will the next generation have parks
to enjoy.
As a fourth great goal, I will offer a
far-reaching set of proposals for improv-
ing America's health care and making it
available more fairly to more people.
I will propose:
program to insure that no Ameri-
can family will be prevented from
obtaining basic medical care by in-
ability to pay.
-I will propose a major increase in and
redirection of aid to medical schools,
to greatly increase the number of
doctors and other health personnel.
-Incentives to improve the delivery of
health services, to get more medical
care resources into those areas that
have not been adequately served, to
make greater use of medical assist-
ants, and to slow the alarming rise in
the costs of medical care.
-New programs to encourage better
preventive medicine, by attacking the
causes of disease and injury, and by
providing incentives to doctors to
keep people well rather than just to
treat them when they are sick.
I will also ask for an appropriation of
an extra $100 million to launch an inten-
sive campaign to find a cure for cancer,
and I will ask later for whatever addi-
tional funds can effectively be used. The
time has come in America when the same
kind of concentrated effort that split the
atom and took man to the moon should
be turned toward conquering this dread
disease. Let us make a total national com-
mitment to achieve this goal.
America has long been the wealthiest
nation in the world. Now it is time we be-
came the healthiest nation in the world.
The fifth great goal is to strengthen and
to renew our State and local governments.
As we approach our 200th anniversary
in 1976, we remember that this Nation
launched itself as a loose confederation
of separate States, without a workable
central government. At that time, the
mark of its leaders' vision was that they
quickly saw the need to balance the sep-
arate powers of the States with a govern-
ment of central powers.
And so they gave us a constitution of
balanced powers, of unity with diversity—
and so clear was their vision that it sur-
vives today as the oldest written con-
stitution still in force in the world.
For almost two centuries since-and
dramatically in the 1930's-at those great
turning points when the question has been
between the States and the Federal Gov-
ernment, that question has been resolved
in favor of a stronger central Federal
Government.
During this time the Nation grew and
the Nation prospered. But one thing his-
tory tells us is that no great movement goes
in the same direction forever. Nations
change, they adapt, or they slowly die.
The time has now come in America to
reverse the flow of power and resources
from the States and communities to
Washington, and start power and re-
sources flowing back from Washington to
the States and communities and, more
important, to the people all across
America.
The time has come for a new partner-
ship between the Federal Government
and the States and localities-a partner-
ship in which we entrust the States and
localities with a larger share of the Na-
71-234-72-7
53
