Richard Nixon, 1971
June 1 [189]
but actually were lawbreakers, came into
Washington.
They were confronted with what could
have been a very difficult crisis. They dealt
with it. They dealt with it, it seems to me,
with very great restraint and with neces-
sary firmness.
I approve of what they did, and in the
event that we have similar situations in
the future, I hope that we can handle
those situations as well as this was
handled. And I hope they can be handled
that well in other cities so that we do not
have to resort to violence.
SUPPLY OF GOODS IN VIETNAM
[14.] Q. Mr. President, sir, I wonder
what you are going to do about the over-
supply of goods in Vietnam. I understand
we have enough telephone poles over there
for 125 years and acres of trucks and other
communications equipment.
Will that be brought back, and where
will it be put?
THE PRESIDENT. At the present time,
my main concern is to bring back the men
from Vietnam. After that we will think
about the goods.
CHINA POLICY
[15.] Q. Mr. President, since April you
have been considering policy studies on
the China question, easing trade with
China, and representation at the United
Nations. Can you say where these stand
now, please?
THE PRESIDENT. With regard to the
United Nations question, a significant
change has taken place among the mem-
bers of the United Nations on the issue of
admission of Mainland China. We are
now analyzing that situation in consulta-
tions with the Republic of China on Tai-
wan and with third countries.
After we have completed our analysis,
which I would imagine would take ap-
proximately 6 weeks, we will then decide
what position we, the Government of the
United States, should take at the next
session of the United Nations this fall, and
we will have an announcement to make
at that time with regard to that particular
problem.
A number of various options are open
to us.
With regard to trade, the various agen-
cies have now completed their review of
the situation and have submitted their
recommendations to me. And on June 10,
I will make an announcement releasing a
wide variety of items which previously had
been banned. These are all nonstrategic
items in which trade can be conducted
with Mainland China.
Let me put all of this in context by say-
ing that there are only two areas where we
have moved. They are significant, how-
ever, in themselves. In the area of open-
ing the door to travel and opening the
door to more trade, we have made sig-
nificant movement. I think what, how-
ever, we should realize is that we still have
a long way to go.
As I recall, there is a Chinese proverb to
the effect that a journey of a thousand
miles begins with a single step. We have
taken two steps, but the important thing
is that we have started the journey toward
a more normal relationship with Main-
land China; and eventually-and this is
vitally important-ending its isolation
and the isolation of 700 million people
695
