Richard Nixon, 1971
Dec. 10 [390]
the Secretary of the Treasury and I were,
as I recall, at Camp David, along with
other members of the Administration
working on the new economic policy, some
of those who were there said it was impos-
sible to present a tax bill to the Congress
at this time of year just before an election
year and expect the bill to come out in
any
responsible way. In fact, it was said that
a tax bill presented to the Congress now
would inevitably end up as a Christmas
tree. What of course they meant was that
it would be a Christmas tree in the sense
that it would be so loaded down with
goodies that it would break down the tree.
I would like to say that the responsibility
that has been shown by the ranking mem-
bers and all the members of the finance
committees the chairman and the rank-
ing member and their colleagues on the
Ways and Means Committee of the
House, the chairman and the ranking
member and their colleagues on the Sen-
ate Finance Committee-has certainly
been a splendid example of our system at
work, and at work at its best.
This is a Christmas tree. It is one in
390
which there is something for all of the
American people. But it is one which will
not break down the tree. That temptation
has been avoided, and the Congress has
come forward with a responsible bill
which will benefit the economy and bene-
fit all Americans.
So speaking for the American people
and for the Administration, I want to give
the credit where it is due, not only to the
Secretary of the Treasury and others who
worked on the bill here, but to the Mem-
bers of the House and the Senate, Demo-
crat and Republican, who put the inter-
ests of the country first and came forward
with a very responsible tax bill, despite the
prophecies that it would be impossible to
do so.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:11 p.m. in the
Cabinet Room at the White House.
As enacted, the bill (H.R. 10947) is Public
Law 92-178 (85 Stat. 497).
On November 29, 1971, the White House re-
leased the transcript of a news briefing by Clark
MacGregor, Counsel to the President for Con-
gressional Relations, on Senate amendments to
the bill.
Statement About the Revenue Act of 1971.
December 10, 1971
PRACTICALLY every American-tax-
payers, jobseekers, housewives, business-
men, workers—will benefit from the his-
toric tax-cut legislation which I have
today signed into law. And so will the
American economy.
The most important thing this act
means is jobs. In addition to the job-
creating effects of the auto excise tax
repeal and of the increase in consumers'
after-tax income, the job development
credit will create new jobs by encourag-
ing American businesses to buy new
equipment—and, by increasing the pro-
ductivity of our workers, it will help make
American business more competitive in
the world, and thus keep more jobs here
in the United States. Increased produc-
tivity will also provide a basis for wage
increases not offset by price increases-
an increase in our real standard of living.
In its major provisions, this act follows
closely the recommendations I made last
August. It represents a critical part of the
71-234-72-78
1181
