Richard Nixon, 1971
Jan. 29 [32]
and many of us have had the privilege of
visiting, means very little to people in the
great cities of the East and the West and
the others who never have been to Yellow-
stone, and perhaps will never have a
chance to go, or to the Grand Canyon,
even to Yosemite.
And that is why we have a program
which is imaginative and novel, and one
that I think is quite exciting, of bringing
parks to the people, conserving and devel-
oping those that we have in the West, the
great beauty of this country, but also
bringing them to the people so that the
people, the majority of the people, will
have an opportunity to know, just a little,
how beautiful this country is.
And it is truly a beautiful country. And
we have a chance to make it more
beautiful.
One little personal anecdote: Some of
you in the press, I see, were here when I
took a little walking tour in New York a
few months ago. And I went by the apart-
ment house where I used to live. I looked
for an elevator operator who was one of
my very good friends there. One of the
reasons was we were born on the same day
in 1913, January 9.
He had lived all of his life in New York,
except for one brief period just before
World War II when he had gone across
the country. He used to speak almost wist-
fully of how beautiful that country was
and how much he wished that he could
afford to take his family out to see the
parks, the real beauty of America out
across this country.
I realized that he was one of millions
of people in this country living in great
cities, but who never really have the
chance to enjoy the beauty of America,
not simply because of the smog, not simply
because of the crime, not simply because
of the noise and the traffic, and all of the
other things that make city life more and
more unbearable, but because we have
not thought enough about our responsi-
bility not simply to conserve those beauti-
ful places in America where a few of us
who can afford it can go to see them but
to bring that beauty very close to people,
so that the great majority, all the people
of America, could have just a little chance
to enjoy it, to appreciate it, to get the lift,
the inspiration of being outdoors and then
of coming inside and feeling a little better
about that task, that sometimes very dull
and routine task, that we have to go on
day after day, year after year.
It is because I think Rogers Morton has
this feeling in his heart, because he loves
the outdoors, because he spoke to me
about the environment very feelingly long
before I became a candidate for President
in 1968, because he is committed to not
only restoring the environment of this
country, but to the renewal of this Nation
throughout its natural beauty, and be-
cause he wants to bring the beauty of
America to the people, make it relevant; it
is for this reason that I think he has the
greatest opportunity of any Secretary of
the Interior in history.
And I think Theodore Roosevelt in this
historic room, if he were here today, would
"This is a great time. This is an excit-
ing time." And I believe it is a time that
requires a big man for a big job.
say,
We have a big man, big in every way.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:22 a.m. in
the Roosevelt Room at the White House.
Stewart L. Udall was Secretary of the In-
terior from 1961 to 1969.
Secretary Morton's response to the Presi-
dent's remarks is printed in the Weekly Com-
pilation of Presidential Documents (vol. 7,
p. 129).
79
