Richard Nixon, 1971
Apr. 16 [144]
have already implied in my answer to Mr.
Risher, in addition to the innocence or
guilt of Captain [Lieutenant] Calley with
regard to the specific charges involved,
there is the problem of trials for war
crimes generally, and there is, of course,
debate with regard to what should happen
in those trials.
not
There are many other cases
many-several other cases like his. Some
have already been decided, some are still
to be decided. It seemed to me under the
circumstances that a Presidential state-
ment at the highest level should be made
once this case is completed, should be
made setting the whole thing into per-
spective and without infringing upon his
rights, a decision that would let the Amer-
ican people know, and the world know,
why such a prosecution did take place and
why it was upheld, or why it is not upheld.
I, of course, will not prejudge it at this
time before it goes through the judicial
process. I think it should be done and
that is why I am doing it.
MR. CORMIER. On the other hand, Mr.
President, the whole military system of
justice was overhauled a very few years
ago to try to eliminate, or at least mini-
mize, command influence.
This, I think, is Captain Daniel's main
argument, that just by the fact that
you,
as President of the United States and
Commander in Chief, interjected yourself
into it months before otherwise necessary,
it is going to have a filter-down effect all
the way.
THE PRESIDENT. The military system of
justice, Mr. Cormier and I checked this,
before I acted, with the Secretary of De-
fense-provides implicitly that the Presi-
dent of the United States at any time has
the right to review, at any time has the
right to intercede, if he believes that the
national interest or the interests of the
accused require it.
I felt that under these circumstances,
the national interest required it, and that
is why I acted.
U.S. GOALS IN SOUTHEAST ASIA
[7.] Mr. Meyer of the Miami News.
SYLVAN MEYER (editor, Miami News).
I would like to return, sir, to the matter of
Southeast Asia.
The withdrawal of our troops from
Vietnam-it now appears a relatively
shortrun matter at whatever date it
Occurs.
Does this mean that we will be aban-
doning or materially changing our long-
range strategic goals, the concepts in that
part of the world, and do we regard our
interests in that part of the world as hav-
ing changed substantially because of this
war?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Meyer, it does not
mean that our interests have changed. It
does mean that our method of con-
tributing to the achievement of those
interests has changed.
That is where what has been called the
Nixon Doctrine comes in.
Again, Mr. Cormier and Mr. Risher
will remember that when I was at Guam,
I explained the Nixon Doctrine in brief.
It provides that where we have a situa-
tion, as we have in South Vietnam, of a
country that is threatened by an aggressive
force from the outside, that the United
States will try to help that country develop
the capacity to defend itself, but that we
will not do, if we can possibly avoid it,
what we did in Korea and then what we
again did in Vietnam-go in, in effect,
539
