[20] Jan. 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
United States, which would be destroyed
by construction of the Canal.
The Council on Environmental Qual-
ity has recommended to me that the proj-
ect be halted, and I have accepted its ad-
vice. The Council has pointed out to me
that the project could endanger the
unique wildlife of the area and destroy
this region of unusual and unique natural
beauty.
The total cost of the project if it were
completed would be about $180 million.
About $50 million has already been com-
mitted to construction. I am asking the
Secretary of the Army to work with the
Council on Environmental Quality in de-
veloping recommendations for the future
of the area.
The step I have taken today will pre-
vent a past mistake from causing perma-
nent damage. But more important, we
must assure that in the future we take not
only full but also timely account of the
environmental impact of such projects-
so that instead of merely halting the dam-
age, we prevent it.
2I Remarks at a White House Staff Meeting on the Second
Anniversary of the President's Inauguration.
January 20, 1971
JOHN D. EHRLICHMAN (Assistant to the
President for Domestic Affairs). Mr.
President, we are here to review next
year's budget in general detail and the
next year's legislative program. But we are
delighted that you stopped by so that
we can wish you many happy returns of
the day.
If I could just be permitted a word be-
fore we have an opportunity to hear from
you, I think, if I can speak for the group,
that we appreciate the quality of life here
at the White House in the sense of the-
this is your phrase.
THE PRESIDENT. You mean particularly
the night life? [Laughter] I don't mean
that the way you think, either.
MR. EHRLICHMAN. Well, the days here
are long but the years are short. They seem
to fly by. In looking back on them and
considering the climate and national con-
ditions when we got here and things as
we find them today, we are grateful for
the progress that has been made. We are
very grateful for your leadership and for
your insistence on the principles that you
set down for us.
We congratulate you on this anniver-
sary and sincerely wish you many happy
returns of the day.
THE PRESIDENT. I will say a word.
I want the press pool to hear what I say
about the staff when I am not speaking
behind their backs.
I do want you to know that-the mem-
bers of the press—that I am very proud
of our White House Staff. What I have
said about their night work was not said
facetiously. I often do go over to the
EOB, as you know, and after my lights go
off over there, most of the members of the
staff, many of them certainly, are still
working.
It is a remarkable staff, remarkable in
its quality, in its devotion. I was going to
say also in its youth, apart from its years,
it at least has the vigor, the determination,
the imagination of youth, and, as the State
of the Union and the legislative program
will indicate, the boldness of youth. And
44
