Richard Nixon, 1971
Mar. 4 [86]
poor people with training and job
programs shaped to their special
needs.
-This Act would allow county govern-
ments to provide skill training and
transitional employment to welfare
recipients to move them toward self-
support and new dignity.
It would, in short, allow each State or
community to fit its programs to its
people.
LOOKING AHEAD
In August 1969 I submitted the Man-
power Training Act of 1969. It was one of
three key proposals to begin reversing the
tide of power which for a generation has
flowed from the States and communities
to Washington.
For over a year the Ninety-First Con-
gress considered the proposed new man-
power legislation, adding many new and
creative ideas to our original proposals.
Legislation was approved by both houses
of Congress which entrusted important
new manpower responsibilities to State
and local governments. Unfortunately,
the final bill also contained serious flaws,
and I was forced to withhold my ap-
proval from it last December. With this
message I am fulfilling my pledge then to
submit new manpower legislation in 1971.
This bill builds upon the foundation
that was laid during the last Congress.
It responds to Governors' and Mayors'
appeals for increased responsibility and in-
creased flexibility.
It makes manpower programs more
readily accountable to the clients they
serve and the taxpayers who support
them.
It recognizes that transitional public
service employment is an integral part of
manpower policy—and places no ceiling
on its extent within the manpower pro-
gram.
It triggers extra Federal funds to coun-
teract periods of rising unemployment.
In summary, this proposal is designed
to give more effective help to those who
need it, and to give Americans full return
for their tax dollars spent on manpower
assistance in the years ahead-full return
in the form of unemployment brought
down and kept down, and in the form
of new income and achievement oppor-
tunities for millions of deserving men and
women.
And its effects could reach far beyond
the field of manpower: As it gives State
and local governments the resources and
authority to deal with their problems in a
single area, it can build the confidence and
competence of those governments in all
areas. As it cuts away the layers of bu-
reaucracy that have separated the people
from one specific exercise of their govern-
ing power, it can help restore the people's
faith in the democratic process generally.
Teamed with my other Special and Gen-
eral Revenue Sharing proposals, it can
help to launch the United States on a
new era of revolutionary change for the
better.
The White House
March 4, 1971
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: On the same day, the White House re-
leased two fact sheets and the transcript of a
news briefing on the manpower special revenue
sharing proposal by James D. Hodgson, Secre-
tary, and Malcolm R. Lovell, Jr., Assistant
Secretary for Manpower, Department of Labor.
On April 6, 1971, the White House released
the transcript of a news briefing by Edwin L.
Harper, Special Assistant to the President, on
the hold harmless base line figures for States
and localities under special revenue sharing,
and a fact sheet on the figures for manpower
special revenue sharing.
385
