Richard Nixon, 1971
June 22 [206]
costs in an effective way that will not
destroy quality, a problem which all of
us are deeply aware of.
I would like to talk to you today about
another subject, a challenge in the health
care field related to it very directly, a
problem which I note again that you are
taking up in your general sessions, in fact,
this afternoon.
I refer to the problem of drug abuse.
Drug abuse, I have said recently, is Amer-
ica's public enemy number one. It is the
greatest of all present threats to our social
future. Oh, we used to be able to brush it
off. We used to say it is a ghetto problem,
or it is a black problem, or it is a prob-
lem of the poor and the depressed and
the rest.
But today it is no longer just a ghetto
problem. It is no longer just a problem.
that primarily affects those that are non-
white, or the poor, because its impact cuts
across all social and economic lines in our
country.
It has moved from the ghetto to the
suburbs, from the poor to the upper mid-
dle class and the upper class in terms of
economic income. It afflicts the rich and
the poor, the blacks and the whites, the
servicemen and the civilians, and the ghet-
tos and the suburbs. It spreads like a
plague throughout our society. It erodes
our Nation's strength. It destroys our Na-
tion's spirit. And, worst of all, it under-
mines our Nation's future.
I had a letter recently from a man who
said that we are in danger of losing "a
whole generation of Americans to drugs."
Two years ago
I recommended a series
of new laws to crack down on drug abuse,
particularly in the enforcement field.
Those laws passed the Congress last fall;
they are beginning to prove their value.
But more is needed, particularly in the
field of rehabilitation.
That is why I have launched a totally
new program for a total offensive-world-
wide, nationwide, and through all seg-
ments of society-against drug abuse.
The program I announced includes
strong efforts to cut off the supply of
dangerous narcotics at their source in
other countries. It more than doubles our
budget for rehabilitation. It moves against
drug abuse in the military. It sets up a
new command post on drugs in the Execu-
tive Office of the President.
The President has many responsibilities.
There are probably too many responsi-
bilities that come to his desk. But this
problem is so serious that I feel that the
President must take personal command
and personal responsibility. And that is
what I have done.
That is why I have named as head of
this new office in the White House one
of the great experts in this field, a man,
Dr. Jerome Jaffe, of great experience in
Illinois. I think he represents the best of
America's medical profession. He is tough.
He is no nonsense. But he is also a man
who is compassionate. He understands the
problem. There is one assignment I have
given, among many others. Believe it or
not, there are nine Federal agencies that
work in the field of drugs in the United
States in drug abuse, and too often I have
found, over the past 2 years, that those
agencies are competing with each other
for personnel, competing with each other
for attention, competing with each other
before Congressional committees for
funds.
And I have given one instruction to
Dr. Jaffe that I have ordered him to
carry out without any question, and that
71-234-72——32
765
