Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 4 [43]
fact, giving States and localities the power
to spend certain Federal tax monies will
increase the influence of each citizen on
how those monies are used. It will make
government more responsive to taxpayer
pressures. It will enhance accountability.
In the first place, there is no reason to
think that the local taxpayer will be less
motivated to exert pressure concerning the
way shared revenues are spent. For one
thing, the local taxpayer is usually a Fed-
eral taxpayer as well; he would know
that it was his tax money that was being
spent.
way
Even if local taxpayers were only con-
cerned about local taxes, however, they
would still have a direct stake in the
spending of Federal revenues. For the
Federal money is used determines how
much local money is needed. Each wise
expenditure of Federal dollars would
mean an equivalent release of local money
for other purposes-including relief from
the need to raise high local taxes even
higher. And every wasted Federal dol-
lar would represent a wasted opportunity
for easing the pressure on local revenues.
Most voters seldom trace precisely
which programs are supported by which
levies. What they do ask is that each level
of government use all its money-where-
ever it comes from--as wisely as possible.
The average taxpayer, then, will be no
less disposed to hold public officials to ac-
count under revenue sharing. What is
more, he will be able to hold them to
account far more effectively.
The reason for this is that "account-
ability" really depends, in the end, on
accessibility-on how easily a given offi-
cial can be held responsible for his spend-
ing decisions. The crucial question is not
where the money comes from but whether
the official who spends it can be made to
answer to those who are affected by the
choices he makes. Can they get their views
through to him? Is the prospect of their
future support a significant incentive for
him? Can they remove him from office if
they are unhappy with his performance?
These questions are far more likely to
receive an affirmative answer in a smaller
jurisdiction than in a larger one.
For one thing, as the number of issues
is limited, each issue becomes more im-
portant. Transportation policy, for ex-
ample, is a crucial matter for millions of
Americans—yet a national election is un-
likely to turn on that issue when the great
questions of war and peace are at stake.
In addition, each constituent has a
greater influence on policy as the number
of constituents declines. An angry group
of commuters, for example, will have far
less impact in a Senatorial or Congres-
sional election than in an election for
alderman or county executive. And it is
also true that the alderman or county
executive will often be able to change the
local policy in question far more easily
than a single Congressman or Senator can
change policy at the Federal level.
Consider what happens with most Fed-
eral programs today. The Congress levies
taxes and authorizes expenditures, but the
crucial operating decisions are often made
by anonymous bureaucrats who are di-
rectly accountable neither to elected offi-
cials nor to the public at large. When
programs prove unresponsive to public
needs, the fact that the same level of gov-
ernment both raises and spends the rev-
enues is little comfort.
At the local level, however, the situa-
tion is often reversed. City councils, school
boards and other local authorities are con-
stantly spending revenues which are raised
by State governments-in this sense, rev-
119
