Appendix B
April
April
14 The President attended the swearing in of
William J. Casey as Chairman of the Secu-
rities and Exchange Commission, at a
White House ceremony.
14 Rainer Barzel, Chairman of the Christian
Democratic Union-Christian Social Union,
Federal Republic of Germany, called on the
President at the White House.
15 Prime Minister Ahmed Laraki of Morocco
met with the President at the White House.
15 Members of the President's Committee on
Employment of the Handicapped called on
the President at the White House. Included
in the group were Richard and Robert
Santin, twin brothers from Fullerton, Nebr.,
both of whom are nearly completely para-
lyzed by muscular dystrophy. The Santins
were the recipients of the President's
Trophy Award at the opening session of
the Committee's annual meeting in
Washington.
16 The White House announced that the
President has asked Clifford M. Hardin,
Secretary of Agriculture, and George A.
Lincoln, Director of the Office of Emer-
gency Preparedness, to go to Texas to per-
sonally assess conditions brought on by the
current drought.
16 Bernard Lasker, chairman of the New York
Stock Exchange, Albert H. Gordon, senior
partner of Kidder, Peabody & Co., and
Donald T. Regan, chairman of Merrill
Lynch, Pierce, Fenner, and Smith, Inc.,
called on the President at the White House.
16 The President greeted members of the
student council of Rio Grande High School,
Rio Grande City, Texas, in the Rose Gar-
den at the White House.
19 Representatives of the Robert A. Taft In-
stitute of Government, including Senator
Robert Taft, Jr., of Ohio, presented the
President with the Institute's commemora-
tive medal.
19 Members of the executive committee of the
Building Trades Council met with the
President at the White House.
20 The President greeted a group of agricul-
tural editors from throughout the country,
who were in Washington for briefings by
Secretary of Agriculture Clifford M. Hardin
and others. He told the editors of plans
for a White House Salute to Agriculture
Day on May 7.
20 The President met with 160 representatives
of the United States Jaycees attending an
annual Government Affairs Leadership
Seminar.
20 Marcel Naville, President of the Interna-
tional Committee of the Red Cross, paid a
courtesy call on the President at the White
House.
21 The President met with national officers of
the Navy League of the United States at
the White House.
21 Delegates to the National 4-H Conference
were greeted by the President at the White
House.
21 The President met with Ann Ucello, Direc-
tor of the Office of Consumer Affairs, De-
partment of Transportation, and Mary Lou
Grier, Chairman, National Advisory Coun-
cil, Small Business Administration, to dis-
cuss the role of women in Government.
Miss Ucello and Mrs. Grier were sworn in
to Government service on April 14.
22 The President is sending a message of con-
dolence to the Haitian Government and to
Jean Claude Duvalier on the death of
President François Duvalier of Haiti.
23 The Better Hearing and Speech Month
campaign poster child, 2-year-old Michael
Newton of Temple Hills, Md., visited the
President at the White House.
23 A delegation from Birmingham, Ala., called
on the President at the White House. They
were accompanied by Senator James B.
Allen and Representative John Buchanan
of Alabama.
26 The 1971 Cystic Fibrosis Poster Child,
6-year-old Cathy "Mim" Frazier of Davi-
son, Mich., visited the President at the
White House.
1253
