[399] Dec. 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
lishment of ranges for their use. It makes
killing or molesting them a Federal crime.
It prohibits their sale or that of their
remains.
Wild horses and burros merit man's
protection historically-for they are a liv-
ing link with the days of the conquis-
tadors, through the heroic times of the
Western Indians and the pioneers, to our
own day when the tonic of wildness seems
all too scarce. More than that, they merit
it as a matter of ecological right-as any-
one knows who has ever stood awed at the
indomitable spirit and sheer energy of a
mustang running free.
I am happy to take part in the effort
to guarantee their future, and I salute par-
ticularly those determined young de-
fenders of the wild horse who have helped
give impetus to this effort.
NOTE: The statement was released at Key Bis-
cayne, Fla.
As enacted, S. 1116, approved December 15,
1971, is Public Law 92-195 (85 Stat. 649).
400 Statement on Signing Veterans Pension and
Compensation Bills. December 17, 1971
I HAVE signed today two bills which will
expand and reform pension payments and
compensation benefits for America's vet-
erans and their dependents. The enact-
ment of this legislation marks another
important step in our efforts to provide
a better life for those who have given so
much to preserve and protect our Nation.
America's veterans and their families have
a special place in our history-and in our
hearts. The legislation I have signed to-
day recognizes the special obligation our
country owes them.
The veterans disability and death pen-
sion act of 1971 (H.R. 11651) both raises
and revamps the monthly pensions which
our Government now provides to some
2.2 million veterans and survivors. These
benefits are paid, on the basis of need,
to veterans who have served during war-
time periods and have suffered disabilities.
not attributable to their service and to the
families of such veterans whose deaths re-
sulted from such injuries. As a result of
this legislation, such pensions will rise by
an average of 6.5 percent.
The veterans dependency and indem-
nity compensation act of 1971 (H.R.
11652) will increase and restructure
monthly compensation benefits for some
290,500 widows, children, and dependent
parents of veterans who have died as a re-
sult of service-incurred disabilities. The
increase will range from 5 to 10 percent,
depending primarily on the effective date
of the previous benefit increase.
In addition, both of these acts contain
one other reform of particular impor-
tance-one which was strongly recom-
mended by this Administration. In
keeping with the general strategy of our
income maintenance programs, a change
has been made in the method by which
benefits are allocated.
The new allocation formula strengthens
the principle that the size of a person's
benefits should vary with the amount of
his income. It accomplishes this by elimi-
nating the more than 20 income cate-
gories each spanning a $100 range-to
which all recipients are now assigned. Un-
der the old system, the size of a person's
benefits fell abruptly whenever his income
moved across the $100 line which sepa-
1194
