Richard Nixon, 1971
May 29 [187]
more than 70 countries, large and small, of
all political philosophies, and I have
never, in all of those countries, encoun-
tered a leader who felt that American
military strength was a threat to peace or
to his nation's independence.
You can be proud of your country's
power. You can be proud of your uniform,
because your uniform, which helps to
make that power, is wholly committed to
the service of peace. That power is with-
out exception the instrument of principle,
of high respect for the basic rights of men.
and nations. And to those who speak of
American might as something arrogant,
something ominous, you need only ask one
question: In the world today, a world
which permits no vacuum of
power, what
other nation would you trust more with
that power than America?
At the same time, we know that the
very existence of huge arsenals of destruc-
tion tends to heighten the danger of war.
Thus we will continue actively to seek
opportunities for safe limitation of arma-
ments. The best assurance of such safety
is balanced mutual action. You have
heard the arguments of those who urge
steps of unilateral disarmament as a sign
of our good faith, so as to ease interna-
tional tensions. But we must remember
that limitation of arms, however desirable,
is not an end of itself, but a means of con-
tributing to a more peaceful world. When
one side reduces its forces unilaterally and
thus creates an imbalance, this increases
the danger of war. Only when both sides
reduce their forces together do we truly
serve the cause of peace. That is the cause
we mean to serve, and that is the path we
intend to pursue.
And so, the stage is set for your genera-
tion to inherit the American future. You
have
grown up in stormy times. You have
not come gently to maturity. And yet there
is bright promise in your spirit, your
energy, and your moral vision. I believe
you can be the leaders of a great genera-
tion. Surely those of you who will soon be
the young leaders of the United States
Army have an opportunity to serve man-
kind which is almost unparalleled in
history.
The stakes could hardly be higher.
Never before have the needs for peace
been so strong and never have the poten-
tial consequences of war been so cata-
strophic. As the keystone of peace in the
years ahead will be the strength of the
United States of America, so in turn the
keystone of American strength will be
your service.
It is not megatonnage; it is not hard-
ware; it is not the mere masses of men
under arms. It is the caliber and the pur-
pose
of the men who serve. This is what
will really determine our ability to lead the
world into a new era of lasting peace. It
will fall to you to be America's peacetime
soldiers. This is a difficult and demanding
assignment, but one for which I am sure
West Point is preparing you well.
As you set the course of your career, let
the great motto of the Military Academy
be the star you steer by: "Duty...
honor... country."
Duty: Your duty quite simply will be
to keep America so ready to defend her-
self that she is never challenged to do so.
General Eisenhower, a man who spoke
from 50 years of service to the Nation,
once told me that it was far more difficult
for the professional military man to serve
in time of peace than in war. You will
find this to be true. In combat a man
risks his life, but at least the issues are
685
