[14] Jan. 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
14 Statement on the Anniversary of the Birth of
Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.
I FIRST MET Martin Luther King
when, as Vice President, I headed the U.S.
delegation to the ceremonies marking the
independence of Ghana. While there, he
and I began a conversation that ran long
into the night. We talked about the new
African nations, about war and peace, and
about our country. We talked a long time
about the problems of the races in
America.
Millions of Americans are observing
January 15, 1971
Martin Luther King's birthday today. I
remember Dr. King not only for his dream,
but for his personal courage. That cour-
age will remain as an inspiration to the
Nation long after his dream becomes part
of the reality of American life.
NOTE: The statement was read by Deputy
Press Secretary Gerald L. Warren during a
morning news briefing at the White House on
January 15, 1971.
The ceremonies in Ghana, to which the Presi-
dent referred, took place March 3-7, 1957.
15 Statement About the Report of the National Commission
on Reform of Federal Criminal Laws. January 16, 1971
OVER two centuries the Federal criminal
law of the United States has evolved in a
manner both sporadic and haphazard.
Needs have been met as they have arisen.
Ad hoc solutions have been utilized. Many
areas of criminal law have been left to
development by the courts on a case-by-
case basis—a less than satisfactory means
of developing broad governing legal
principles.
Not unexpectedly with such a process,
gaps and loopholes in the structure of Fed-
eral law have appeared; worthwhile
statutes have been found on the books side
by side with the unusable and the obsolete.
Complex, confusing, and even conflicting
laws and procedures have all too often re-
sulted in rendering justice neither to
society nor to the accused.
Laws that are not clear, procedures
that are not understood, undermine the
very system of justice of which they are
the foundations.
In 1966, Congress undertook to provide
the United States with a modern, compre-
hensive, and workable Federal code. The
first major step in that effort was an act
of Congress ¹ creating the Commission on
Reform of Federal Criminal Laws—and
its principal author was Congressman
Richard H. Poff of Virginia.
Composed of distinguished legislators,
judges, attorneys-all of demonstrated
competence in the field of Federal crim-
inal law-the Commission was mandated
to review exhaustively the Federal crim-
inal code and to make recommendations
for both procedural and substantive
reform.
The Commission has fulfilled its man-
date, and I was pleased to receive its re-
port. My personal appreciation goes to the
members of the Commission, the Advisory
Committee, and the staff—and especially
to the Commission Chairman, the Honor-
able Edmund G. Brown, the Vice Chair-
man, Congressman Poff, and the Chair-
1 Public Law 89-801, 80 Stat. 1516.
38
