Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 8 [48]
Public Lands Management
The Federal public lands comprise ap-
proximately one-third of the Nation's land
area. This vast domain contains land with
spectacular scenery, mineral and timber
resources, major wildlife habitat, ecolog-
ical significance, and tremendous recrea-
tional importance. In a sense, it is the
"breathing space" of the Nation.
The public lands belong to all Ameri-
cans. They are part of the heritage and
the birthright of every citizen. It is im-
portant, therefore, that these lands be
managed wisely, that their environmental
values be carefully safeguarded, and that
we deal with these lands as trustees for the
future. They have an important place in
national land use considerations.
The Public Land Law Review Com-
mission recently completed a study and re-
port on Federal public land policy. This
Administration will work closely with the
Congress in evaluating the Commission's
recommendations and in developing legis-
lative and administrative programs to im-
prove public land management.
The largest single block of Federal pub-
lic land lies in the State of Alaska. Recent
major oil discoveries suggest that the State
is on the threshold of a major economic
development. Such development can
bring great benefits both to the State and
to the Nation. It could also-if unplanned
and unguided—despoil the last and great-
est American wilderness.
We should act now, in close coopera-
tion with the State of Alaska, to develop
a comprehensive land use plan for the
Federal lands in Alaska, giving priority
to those north of the Yukon River. Such
a plan should take account of the needs
and aspirations of the native peoples, the
importance of balanced economic devel-
opment, and the special need for main-
taining and protecting the unique natural
heritage of Alaska. This can be accom-
plished through a system of parks, wilder-
ness, recreation, and wildlife areas and
through wise management of the Federal
lands generally. I am asking the Secretary
of the Interior to take the lead in this task,
calling upon other Federal agencies as
appropriate.
Preserving Our Natural Environment
The demand for urban open space,
recreation, wilderness and other natural
areas continues to accelerate. In the face
of rapid urban development, the acquisi-
tion and development of open space, rec-
reation lands and natural areas accessible
to urban centers is often thwarted by
escalating land values and development
pressures. I am submitting to the Con-
gress several bills that will be part of a
comprehensive effort to preserve our nat-
ural environment and to provide more
open spaces and parks in urban areas
where today they are often so scarce. In
addition, I will be taking steps within the
executive branch to assure that all agen-
cies are using fully their existing legisla-
tive authority to these ends.
"Legacy of Parks"
Merely acquiring land for open space
and recreation is not enough. We must
bring parks to where the people are so
that everyone has access to nearby recrea-
tional areas. In my budget for 1972, I
have proposed a new "Legacy of Parks"
program which will help States and local
governments provide parks and recrea-
tion areas, not just for today's Americans
but for tomorrow's as well. Only if we
set aside and develop such recreation
areas now can we ensure that they will
be available for future generations.
135
