Richard Nixon, 1971
Apr. 29 [154]
VISIT TO MAINLAND CHINA
[15.] Q. Mr. President, you spoke of
your intention to travel to Mainland
China. Is that at the invitation of Chair-
man Mao?
THE PRESIDENT. I am not referring to
any
invitation. I am referring only to a
hope and an expectation that at some
time in my life and in some capacity,
which, of course, does not put any dead-
line on when I would do it, that I would
hope to go to Mainland China.
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT ACTION ON
VETERANS ENCAMPMENT
[16.] Mr. Horner [Garnett D. Horner,
Washington Evening Star].
Q. Mr. President, would you describe
for us, sir, the extent of your participa-
tion in the Justice Department's change
of mind last week about banning the
Vietnam veterans from camping on the
Mall?
THE PRESIDENT. First, the Justice De-
partment, Mr. Horner, brought the ac-
tion in order to establish the principle
that camping on the Mall was not some-
thing that was considered to be legal.
Having established that principle, there
was only 36 hours left in which to remove
them and thereby, of course, to engage in
a confrontation which could have been,
we thought, rather nasty.
Under the circumstances, it seemed to
me that since in the negotiations with
their lawyer, Mr. Ramsey Clark, it had
been clearly indicated that they would
leave on Friday night, that the decision
having been made and the principle hav-
ing been established, I saw no reason to
in and to arrest the veterans and to
put them into jail at that time.
go
CHINA POLICY ALTERNATIVES
[17] Yes, Mr. Bailey [Charles W.
Bailey 2d, Minneapolis Tribune and Min-
neapolis Star].
Q. Sir, in your first answer on China,
you said that you were considering sug-
gestions for a two-China policy, along
with suggestions that move in the other
direction. Could you expound a little bit
on what you mean by that?
What is the range of alternatives?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Bailey, what I
meant to convey was that both within
the Administration and from sources out-
side the Administration, there are those
who favor a two-China policy; there are
those who favor universality in the United
Nations; there are those who favor a
one-China policy, either Mainland China
or Taiwan China.
All of these are positions that are taken.
I am not suggesting that they are lively
options as far as I am concerned. What
I am saying is that this is a very complex
problem. I will make the decision after ad-
vising with the Secretary of State and my
other chief advisers in this field, and when
I make it, I will announce it. But I am
not going to speculate on it now because
I emphasize this is a very sensitive area,
and too much speculation about it might
destroy or seriously imperil what I think is
the significant progress we have made, at
least in the travel area, and possibly in
601
