Richard Nixon, 1971
Sept. 10 [289]
to the constituents and the Nation he
served.
His personal integrity earned him the
respect of all who knew him. The sensitiv-
ity, compassion, and candor so magnifi-
cently reflected throughout Win Prouty's
legislative record will be an enduring
source of inspiration for those who suc-
ceed him and a source of strength for all
the people of the country he loved so well.
Not long ago I said that Win Prouty
does not speak often, but when he does
speak everyone listens. Through his many
lasting contributions to the Nation's well-
being, Senator Prouty will continue to
speak to all of us for a long time to come.
NOTE: Senator Prouty, 65, died of cancer in
Boston, Mass.
The statement was posted for the press.
On September 14, 1971, Counsellor to the
President Robert H. Finch represented the
President at memorial services for the Senator
in Washington.
On September 15, Secretary of Transporta-
tion John A. Volpe represented the President
at the funeral services in Vermont.
289
Toasts of the President and Minister for Foreign Affairs
Takeo Fukuda of Japan at a Dinner Honoring
Members of the Japanese Cabinet. September 10, 1971
Mr. Vice President, Mr. Foreign Minister,
Mr. Secretary of State, members of the
Cabinet of the Government of Japan,
members of the Cabinet of the Govern-
ment of the United States, and all of our
distinguished guests:
It has been a very great honor for me
and for Mrs. Nixon to host in this State
Dining Room, since we have been in this
house, the heads of government and the
heads of state of a number of governments
around the world. This is the first time
that we have had the honor of hosting a
group of the top members of a cabinet of
a government of another country. And I
should also add, that earlier in our term
of office, we had the great honor of re-
ceiving Prime Minister Sato and having
him at this table.
Now we have the special group from
the Cabinet of Japan here, and, on Sep-
tember 26, Mrs. Nixon and I will fly to
Anchorage, Alaska, to welcome the Em-
peror and Empress of Japan as they stop
there on their way to their state visit to
various capitals of Europe.
It seems to me that there is a special
significance in the fact that Japan is the
only country in the world in which, in
addition to the traditional dinner for the
head of government, or the head of state,
that we have a dinner for the Cabinet and
also, that we have the opportunity to wel-
come the head of state as he passes
through our country.
This indicates the very close relations,
the special relationship between the
United States and Japan; the relationship
to which I have referred often when I
have visited Japan, both as Vice President
and when I was out of office, and also
when Prime Minister Sato was here.
It refers also to the fact that both of
our countries recognize that peace in the
Pacific is essential to peace in the world
and that friendly relations between Japan
and the United States are essential if we
are to have peace in the Pacific.
Today the fact that we have these
many contacts at so many levels is the
945
