Richard Nixon, 1971
May 1 [156]
mind what the trial court has found, and
also what the other reviewing authorities
say.
I am not trying to influence the review-
ing authorities. I am simply indicating,
as they all know, and the law so provides,
that as Commander in Chief, I will exer-
cise my right to review.
CIVIL RIGHTS ACTIONS
[13] Q. Mr. President, many black
Americans seem to think that your Admin-
istration is anti-equal-rights. My question
is, what are you doing to counter that im-
pression, and what do you consider to be
your most important actions in advancing
the cause of civil rights?
THE PRESIDENT. When we consider the
many things that we have done in this
area, we could refer, for example, to the
food stamp program, which, of course,
benefits, as you know, many disadvan-
taged Americans and many black Ameri-
cans. For example, the increment that we
have asked for this year is twice as much
as the program, the whole program, was
when we came into office.
In other words, we are dealing with the
problem of hunger in America which af-
fects black Americans and many other dis-
advantaged Americans.
Second, we are making very great
strides, significant strides, in the field of
minority enterprise. They have not been
well advertised, but they are known
among those who have businesses, who
didn't have them before and didn't have
that chance.
Third, we are providing opportunities
in government that have not been pro-
vided before.
Fourth, and this is an area that I think
needs to be emphasized, let's look at the
matter of the dual school system.
When we consider today that even be-
fore the Supreme Court decision that was
handed down last week, 38 percent of all
black children in the South now go to
majority white schools as compared to 28
percent of all black children in the North
going to majority white schools, we can
see that a very quiet but significant revolu-
tion has taken place in this country; and
it is to the great credit of the far-seeing,
law-abiding black and white leaders of the
South that this has taken place.
They now have another difficult prob-
lem, complying with the Supreme Court
decision, and I believe compliance will
take place because we are going to follow
our same tactic of cooperation rather than
coercion.
As far as the entire problem is con-
cerned, I have met with black leaders,
with the black Congressmen, and with
various representatives of the black com-
munity, and will continue to do so, and
with representatives of other parts of our
society, because we have got to move for-
ward not only with black Americans; we
have very significant problems-we in
California know it-in the Mexican-
American community.
I found, for example, looking at some
statistics recently, that with regard to pov-
erty, for example, that the problem of
Mexican-Americans in the Los Angeles
area is even worse than that of black
Americans. So we have got to zero in on
that problem as well.
REPORTER. Thank you, Mr. President.
NOTE: President Nixon's sixteenth news confer-
ence was held at 10 a.m. on the grounds of the
Western White House in San Clemente, Calif.,
on Saturday, May 1, 1971. It was broadcast live
on radio.
613
