[250] Aug. 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. One of the prob-
lems, difficult problems that I confronted
last year and that I will confront again
this
year, is a recommendation to increase
the wages for blue-collar workers within
the Government. I have examined that
situation, and I have determined that an
increase in the blue-collar wage scale
would not be in the interests of our fight-
ing the inflation battle.
Speaking to the same point, we have a
situation with regard to the Congress and
some of its appropriations bills. We are
trying to keep our budget within the full
employment limits for 1972.
The Congress already has exceeded our
budget by $5.4 billion. That includes
mandatory spending, which they have im-
posed upon us, and additions to the ap-
propriations bills. Before they get through
with the appropriations process I hope
that comes down.
But that will be highly inflationary un-
less the Congress speaks to that problem
more effectively. What I was indicating,
in other words, Herb [Herbert Kaplow,
NBC News], was that I am indicating in
advance the decision that I do not intend
to approve the wage increase relative to
the blue-collar workers in the Govern-
ment. Under those circumstances, I could
not, of course, approve an increase in
salaries for people as underpaid basically
as Dr. Burns is, considering what he could
get on the outside, or Dr. Shultz is, con-
sidering what he could get on the outside.
Q. How many people are there in the
blue-collar area?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't have that but
it is a significant number. Incidentally, I
think it is an equitable decision because
they have had some substantial increases
in the past. It is a question of whether we
just continue for a short time.
WAGE-PRICE GUIDELINES
[12.] Q. Sir, you also mentioned
guidelines in a manner that suggested that
you might accept the concept of numer-
ical guidelines. Did you mean to suggest
that?
THE PRESIDENT. No. What I meant to
say was that my study of the situation
indicates that guidelines in this country
have always failed; they have never
worked. Guidelines in other industrial
countries, including Canada, for example,
and Britain, have worked only for a short
time and then have fallen because guide-
lines basically connote voluntary compli-
ance and voluntary compliance goes on
only for a brief time.
Now, as far as what I am saying, it is
that our approach at this time is a selec-
tive one to take those particular industries
that are coming up for bargaining and to
use our influence as effectively as we
can to see that those settlements are
responsible.
Secondly, that as far as a wage-price
board is concerned, that it would be con-
sidered favorably only if the hearings that
are going to be taken in this field, only if
the hearings can convince me that enforc-
ing an incomes policy could be accom-
plished without stifling the economy.
It is the problem, in other words, of
enforcement, because I come back to this
fundamental proposition: I have yet to
find except for the extremists on the left-
and I don't say this in a condemning way;
it is only an observation-the extremists
on the left of the economic spectrum have
always favored a totally Government
controlled economy.
They believe that. I don't believe it.
They believe that we should have perma-
nent wage and price controls and that
858
