[210] June 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
particularly fortunate, I should say, that
my own parents lived long lives. My fa-
ther lived until he was 77, died in 1956
when I ran for Vice President the second
time. My mother lived until she was 82.
They shared a lot with me when I was
young, growing up in a family of five
boys, two of whom died when I was
young.
But when we went through those pe-
riods, their strength, of course, built
strength in the other boys. But also, they
shared a lot with me when I was older.
One little incident proves it. In 1962 I
ran for Governor of California and lost,
after having lost for President in 1960. I
then moved to New York. A couple of
years later my mother had a very serious
operation. She was not expected to live.
I flew to California to see her. The doctor
in the hospital said, before I went into
the room, he said, "The best thing you
can do is to cheer her up. Let her know
that there is still something worth living
for."
So I went in and I talked to my
mother, and she was under heavy seda-
tion, but she perked up, as she always
did when somebody came in to see her.
And then, just as I was ready to leave to
go back out to New York, I said, "Now,
Mother, don't you give up." Her eyes
flashed, she sort of leaned up in the bed,
and she said, "Don't you give up."
I didn't give up. That is why I am here
today. But let me tell you something. It
was very tempting to give up-two de-
feats, making a lot of money as a lawyer
in New York, not the problems and vicis-
situdes of politics. If my mother hadn't
said that, I might have given up. She
didn't live to see what her advice did.
But that shows what the older genera-
tion can do to younger people who have
not been through as much, who might give
up. You can see why we need you, why
younger people need you, your advice,
your wisdom, your strength, your
perspective.
If we allow our society to become frag-
mented, so that younger Americans are
cut off from older Americans, then each
member of our society will also become
fragmented, with young people cut off
from their past and older people from the
future.
I spoke last January to an assembly of
young people at the University of Ne-
braska, young people like the young people
in this band, about their age. And on that
occasion, I called for a new alliance be-
tween generations-between the young
generation on the one hand and the older
generation on the other. But, you know,
when I come to think about it, that is
not enough.
Today I want to go a step further. I
call today for a new alliance in this coun-
try between Americans who are under 65
and those who are over 65.
The American community will be in-
complete without the full participation of
every American. For each generation has
its unique role to play in the unfolding
drama of America.
Let us then put aside the things which
would divide us-suspicion, condescen-
sion, resentment, indifference. Let us join
together across the generations and make
ours an even greater America as we move
forward together.
I have met many world leaders in my
travels to over 70 countries in the world.
I did not agree with all of them, but I
learned from all of them, young and old.
I remember seeing President de Gaulle
of France after he had become President
of France. I had been defeated for office.
782
