Richard Nixon, 1971
Apr. 21 [148]
most sensitive areas-private foreign in-
vestment-of the inherently sensitive over-
all relationship between aid donors and
aid recipients. It is therefore essential that
OPIC assist only sound projects which are
responsive to the particular development
needs of each country.
And it is clearly for each country to
decide the conditions under which it will
accept private foreign investment, just
as it is for each investor to decide what
conditions are adequate to attract his in-
vestments. We as a Government ask only
that the investments of our citizens be
treated fairly and in accordance with in-
ternational law. In nearly all cases they
have been. However, unjust acts by a
country toward an American firm cannot
help but adversely affect our relationship
with that country. As President, I must
and will take such acts into account in
determining our future assistance and
overall policy toward such a country.
The Inter-American Social Develop-
ment Institute has also begun to develop
its programs, which seek to promote the
social development of the Latin Ameri-
can and Caribbean people. Working
mainly through private organizations and
international institutions, it represents a
new innovative channel in seeking to
promote solutions to basic economic and
social problems in these areas. I propose
that it be renamed the Inter-American
Foundation, to characterize more accu-
rately its proposed style of operation.
HUMANITARIAN ASSISTANCE
U.S. humanitarian assistance programs
cover a wide spectrum of human needs:
disaster relief and rehabilitation; famine;
refugee and migration relief and assist-
ance. They aim to help people around the
world recover from unfortunate situations
by which they have been victimized. In
the past year alone, such help has been
extended to refugees from civil war in
Nigeria and Jordan, earthquake victims
in Peru, flood victims in Romania and
Tunisia, and cyclone victims in Pakistan.
These activities rely heavily for pro-
gram implementation on private volun-
tary agencies. In the past year alone, U.S.
voluntary agencies registered with the Ad-
visory Committee on Voluntary Foreign
Aid contributed $370 million of their
own resources in over 100 countries.
At present, humanitarian assistance
programs are carried out through numer-
ous offices in the U.S. Government. I pro-
pose to centralize the responsibility for
coordinating all humanitarian assistance
programs under a new Assistant Secretary
of State. We would thereby assure a co-
herent effort to carry out this vital and
literally life-saving aspect of our foreign
assistance policy. This new approach
would also improve our capability to re-
spond quickly and effectively through
better contingency planning, additional
stockpiling and training, and the mainte-
nance of closer and better coordinated
relationships with the United Nations,
other donor countries, and the private
voluntary agencies.
COORDINATION
I have outlined the overriding need to
separate our overall foreign assistance
program into its three component parts:
security assistance, development assist-
ance, and humanitarian assistance. I
have indicated that we would pull to-
gether all parts of our security assistance
and humanitarian assistance under cen-
tral management, so that each can func-
575
