Richard Nixon, 1971
Mar. 5 [89]
ment to compensate any major city in that
metropolitan area which received less
from the formula allocation than it re-
ceived annually from the old categorical
grant programs over the past few years.
Thus, all of these cities would be "held
harmless" against reductions in the total
urban development support they receive
from Washington. None would be hurt-
and many would receive more assistance
than they do at present.
This administration also recognizes the
needs of the growing and changing subur-
ban and smaller communities-with
populations under 50,000-within metro-
politan areas. After the formula allocation
and "hold harmless" commitments have
been honored within each Standard Met-
ropolitan Statistical Area, the remaining
balance would be available to assist such
smaller units, as well as counties,
and to encourage areawide developmental
cooperation.
The formula according to which the
funds would be distributed among the
Standard Metropolitan Statistical Areas
and among the cities within them would
be "problem oriented"—so that the money
would be channeled into the cities which
need it most. The formula would take into
account the number of people who live in
an area or a city, the degree of overcrowd-
ing there, the condition of its housing
units, and the proportion of its families
whose income is below the poverty level.
The remaining twenty percent of the
Special Revenue Sharing fund for Urban
Community Development—the part that
did not go by formula to the Standard
Metropolitan Statistical Areas-would be
available to the Secretary of Housing and
Urban Development to distribute. Much
of this money would be used during the
transitional period to help hold com-
munities harmless against reductions in
the overall level of their urban develop-
ment support. These funds would also be
used to encourage state involvement in
urban community development, to per-
form research, to demonstrate new tech-
niques and to aid localities with special
needs and with special opportunities to
implement national growth policy.
SPENDING THE FUNDS
How would cities use this money? For
community development purposes-
which could include investments in both
physical and human resources. All of the
activities which are eligible for support
under the present urban development
categorical grants would be eligible for
support from the new Special Revenue
Sharing fund which would take their
place. Cities could thus use their alloca-
tions to acquire, clear and renew blighted
areas, to construct public works such as
water and sewer facilities, to build streets
and malls, to enforce housing codes in
deteriorating areas, to rehabilitate resi-
dential properties, to fund demolition
projects, and to help relocate those who
have been displaced from their homes or
businesses by any activities which drew on
these urban community development
special revenue sharing funds. They could
also fund a range of human resource
activities including those now funded by
Model Cities and Community Action
programs.
Just which of these activities would be
supported and what proportion of avail-
able funds would be channeled into each
activity are decisions that would be made
locally. No Federal approval would be
required. Cities would simply be asked to
indicate how they plan to use their funds
401
