Richard Nixon, 1971
Oct. 28 [342]
way in Yugoslavia. On the basis of the results
achieved so far, they are creating conditions
for an ever fuller assertion of man, of his crea-
tive initiative and his role in society, for even
more democratic relations in our multinational
community. We are just as resolutely endeavor-
ing to stabilize our economy and to eliminate
difficulties that we have never concealed-
although they were not always caused by de-
velopments on our soil-and which are under-
standable in such a fast development as ours.
Both actions will further strengthen the power
and unity of Yugoslavia and its role in inter-
national cooperation.
During your visit to Yugoslavia, Mr. Presi-
dent, I acquainted you with our views of the
world and our place in it, and I have tried to
explain the basic principles of our foreign policy
and how we see the most important interna-
tional issues. I merely wish to underline on this
occasion also that independent and nonaligned
Yugoslavia never develops its relations with
one country to the detriment of its relations
with another country.
We have thrown open the borders of our
country to a free flow of people and the widest
circulation of ideas and goods. In our coopera-
tion with other countries, we are not guided
by any prejudices, and we appraise our partners
according to their actual behavior toward the
world and ourselves.
We know from experience that differences
between countries do not, in themselves, pre-
clude good cooperation, just as similarities do
not automatically guarantee friendly relations.
Our policy of nonalignment, policy of active co-
existence, is aimed at strengthening equitable
international cooperation, the independence
and unhampered development of all countries,
and peace in the world.
Nonalignment, in our view, is an active in-
ternational factor, and not a policy of some kind
of opportunistic "equidistance" or a priori
alignment with these or those stands. We sup-
port all that we believe to be positive and op-
pose the use of force, attempts at domination,
and all pressures, no matter where they come
from, and we shall persevere along this road.
We have always appreciated, Mr. President,
the understanding that the Government and
public opinion of the United States have shown
for Yugoslavia's progress and its position in the
world. Your statement in Belgrade to the effect
that the United States of America respects
Yugoslavia's nonaligned and independent posi-
tion was received with particular satisfaction.
Mr. President, we are following with great
interest and attention your initiatives, your
realistic appraisal of new trends in the world,
and your personal contribution to the "era of
negotiations." Certain progress has been
achieved in international relations in the past
year. This has found expression in the expan-
sion of the substance and increase in the num-
ber of participants in negotiations, in the
alleviation of some major confrontations, and in
the finding of solutions for some problems, for
instance, those in the center of Europe which
have been the constant cause of tension over a
number of years. However, we continue to be
deeply concerned at the lack of progress with
regard to the solution of numerous burning
problems and open foci of conflict that threaten
world peace, like those in the Middle East and
in Indochina.
We are going to continue, Mr. President, our
useful and open talks, and, therefore, it is not
my intention to deal with international problems
at length at the present moment. However,
I should like to draw attention to some issues
in which the whole world is greatly interested.
I have talked about them with many responsible
statesmen in the course of the present year.
Quite recently, in particular, I have had a series
of meetings during my visits to Iran, India, and
the Arab Republic of Egypt.
What is involved are grave problems that
burden the world-the widening gap between
the rich and the poor, between the developed
and the underdeveloped, the hotbeds of war,
dangerous confrontations, vestiges of colonial-
ism, and so on. In paraphrasing the words of
your great President Lincoln, we can say even
today, transposing them to the broader interna-
tional plane, that a world divided against itself,
half slave and half free, cannot endure per-
manently. It is generally felt that all of us
together in addition to our awareness and
material power-should possess sufficient will
and courage resolutely to discard confrontations
which have never brought profit even to one's
own people, but have always done harm to
others. I believe that you share the view that
we should proceed with the energetic and rapid
solving of outstanding issues and take concrete
measures contributing toward that end.
1069
