Richard Nixon, 1971
June 1 [189]
Consequently, what we need is a na-
tional offensive on this problem and one
which, of course, will particularly take
into account the immediate problem in
Vietnam. The problem in Vietnam is ag-
gravated by the fact that heroin can be
purchased there at a much lower price
than it can in the United States, and,
therefore, when men are exposed to it,
or they are able to obtain it, the habit is
one that they can afford to have.
What we are going to do, therefore, is to
step up our national program on four
fronts: First, the front of getting at the
sources. This means working with foreign
governments where the drugs come from,
including the Government of South Viet-
nam, where they have, of course, a special
responsibility.
It means, also, prosecuting those who
are the pushers. It means, in addition to
that, a program of treating the addicts,
and that, incidentally, insofar as veterans
are concerned, means treating them
where they are addicted to heroin or hard
drugs before releasing them, giving them
the opportunity. And, finally, it requires
a massive program of information for the
American people with regard to how the
drug habit begins and how we eventually
end up with so many being addicted to
heroin, the hard drug, which virtually is
a point of no return for many.
In that respect, that is one of the rea-
sons I have taken such a strong position
with regard to the question of marihuana.
I realize this is controversial. But I can
see no social or moral justification what-
ever for legalizing marihuana. I think it
would be exactly the wrong step. It would
simply encourage more and more of our
young people to start down that long,
dismal road that leads to hard drugs and
eventually self-destruction.
I am going to be meeting, incidentally,
Thursday of this week, with the Secretary
of Defense, the three Service Secretaries,
the three heads of the armed services, and
get a direct report from them on the pro-
grams they have initiated at my sugges-
tion and at the suggestion and request of
the Secretary of Defense in the drug field.
We consider it a problem of the highest
priority, and we are going to give it the
highest priority attention at all levels, not
just with regard to veterans, where it is a
special problem, but nationally, where it
is one that concerns us all.
MORALITY OF THE VIETNAM WAR
[4.] Q. Mr. President, much of the de-
bate about Vietnam seems to have shifted
from the question of practicality of policy
to questions about morality of the U.S.
involvement. Some of the people who
have been demonstrating against the war
have contended that your Administration
is responsible for war crimes, not only
speaking of certain face-to-face encoun-
ters between U.S. soldiers and civilians but
speaking of the policy of massive bomb-
ing of large areas of Southeast Asia.
How do you respond to the suggestions
that the bombing constitutes immoral,
criminal conduct?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, my views with
regard to war are well known. I grew up
in a tradition where we consider all wars
immoral. My mother, my grandmother
on my mother's side were Quakers, as I
have often pointed out to this press corps,
and very strongly disapproved of my en-
tering World War II. As far as Vietnam
is concerned, like all wars it involves ac-
tivities that certainly would be subject
to criticism if we were considering it
solely in a vacuum.
689
