[82] Mar. 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
the rest of the time they have been
debriefed.
They are through their debriefing. At
Camp David with their children, they
have a few days off.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The presentation ceremony began at
10:25 p.m. in the East Room at the White
House.
83 Remarks About a Special Message to the Congress on
Special Revenue Sharing for Law Enforcement.
March 2, 1971
Ladies and gentlemen:
I am sending to the Congress today the
first proposal for special revenue sharing,
and it is in the field of law enforcement
assistance.
This proposal is for $500 million and
the Attorney General is here to answer
your questions with regard to its scope
and with regard to the various regula-
tions that will be in effect insofar as the
proposal is concerned.
This is the first that we have had of
the special revenue sharing proposals and
now you will have all of them by the end
of this month.
On Thursday of this week, you will
have the manpower assistance program,
which will be a special revenue sharing
program; and on Friday, we shall have
the urban development program, and the
other three before the end of the month.
We consider this a very appropriate one
to be first, not only because we had the
materials ready and the program ready to
present but because this is an area where,
above all others, it is vitally important
that funds be provided for the States
and the counties and the cities on an ur-
gent basis for the protection of the lives
and the property of people in the States
and the cities and the counties.
When we think of law enforcement, too
often we think of it at the Federal level.
We must remember, of course, that the
great proportion of crime is not in Wash-
ington, D.C., at the Federal level-Wash-
ington, D.C., is a special responsibility of
the Federal Government-but it is out
in the cities, in the States, in the counties
where the Federal Government does not
have responsibility.
And this program of $500 million, a
proposal that the Attorney General will
now describe for you, deals directly with
that problem. It is perhaps the most ef-
fective proposal-it is one which we are
building on, building from the past, the
most effective proposal for getting at what
is called "street crime," the kind of crime
that directly affects the individual more
than
any other.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:01 a.m. in the
Briefing Room at the White House.
On the same day, the White House released
the transcript of a news briefing by Attorney
General John N. Mitchell on the message.
374
