[75] Feb. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
in this report, particularly in the sections
on Europe and Indochina. In addition,
the Secretary of Defense, in his Defense
Report to the Congress, will describe in
detail specific measures we have taken
and the progress we have made.
DESIGNING OUR GENERAL PURPOSE FORCES
Our major effort over the past year
has been to develop a military posture
consistent with these strategic guidelines
and adequate to protect our overseas
interests.
Europe. During 1970, the NATO Al-
liance concentrated on a thorough review
of its defense posture. The central ques-
tion was what strategy and mix of con-
ventional and theater nuclear forces was
best suited to the defense of the Alliance
when both the U.S. and the USSR have
the capabilities for mutual nuclear devas-
tation. The review reflected the fact that
Europe is moving through a time of
change, and that the relationship of
NATO and Warsaw Pact military forces
can have a significant effect on the out-
come of political negotiations.
Thus, we had to consider carefully not
only the forces already deployed in
Europe, but the capabilities the NATO
Alliance maintains for rapid mobiliza-
tion and reinforcement, and the probabil-
ities of receiving early warning. The com-
mitment of our own strategic forces to the
Alliance deterrent, of course, was not in
question.
For our part, we reviewed the contri-
bution of United States ground, air, and
naval forces. Together with our allies we
concluded that:
-We should not decrease our present
forces, nor should any other ally.
-The basic Alliance strategy would
require maximum flexibility to deal
with the full range of possible attacks.
-A realistic deterrent against conven-
tional attacks required a sub-
stantial conventional forward de-
fense capability.
-Important qualitative improvements
would have to be made by all allies
to offset the continuing improve-
ments by the Warsaw Pact.
Asia. The situation in Asia differs sig-
nificantly from that in Europe. The
People's Republic of China has substan-
tial military forces. But those forces pose
a more limited and less immediate threat
in Asia than do the forces of the Soviet
Union in Europe. Chinese nuclear capa-
bilities are still in an early stage of devel-
opment. At the same time, our allies in
Asia have not yet fully developed their
own defense capabilities.
Taking account of these facts, we have
reviewed general purpose force require-
ments in Asia. Our review indicates that
we can meet our collective security objec-
tives while placing greater reliance on our
allies for their own defense. The growing
strength of our allies has already resulted
in a reduction of the level of our general
purpose forces stationed in the region.
In all areas. The primary role of our
general purpose forces is to deter and, if
necessary, cope with external aggression.
If aggression occurs, the use of our forces
will be determined by our interests, the
needs of our allies, and their defense capa-
bilities, which we are seeking to improve.
It is clear, however, that the Soviet
Union's strong and balanced conven-
tional capability enables it to project its
military power to areas heretofore beyond
its reach. This requires us to maintain
balanced and mobile ground, sea, and air
forces capable of meeting challenges to
316
