[392] Dec. II
Public Papers of the Presidents
restructuring of national and international pro-
grams to recognize new realities and essential
new priorities. You have established the basis
for a generation or more of peace.
It has been a privilege and honor to serve
you and to play a small role in assisting you in
exercising American leadership for world peace
and in supporting your determination that our
nation remain both strong and free.
I want to emphasize that my decision to
resign from a full time government position
has been made for strictly personal reasons. I
am, of course, available to assist you from
private life in any way you may feel appro-
priate. I am certain the American people will
re-elect you in 1972 so that you can continue
your great work for peace and stability both at
393
home and abroad. I want to help and will help
in this important job of pointing out in coming
months your accomplishments, your goals, and
the importance of your re-election to the wel-
fare not just of the United States, but to the
entire Free World.
It has been the greatest honor of my lifetime
to have served in your Administration. Your
leadership, backed by courage, wisdom and
understanding, has been magnificent. Thank
you for the opportunity to serve my President
and my country.
Respectfully yours,
DAVID PACKARD
[The President, The White House, Washington,
D.C. 20500]
Statement on the Death of General David Sarnoff.
December 12, 1971
THE DEATH of General David Sarnoff
is a great loss not only for America but for
the world. A monumental figure in elec-
tronic communications, history will record
him as a man of pioneering vision and
indomitable action. General Sarnoff had
those qualities of spirit that embody the
highest tradition of our Nation-imagina-
tion, daring, patriotism, and generosity.
Mrs. Nixon and I join his family and the
Nation at large in mourning the passing
of this gifted American.
NOTE: General Sarnoff, 80, died after a lengthy
illness in New York City. He was chairman of
the board of the Radio Corporation of America
from 1947 until his retirement in 1970. At the
time of his death, he was honorary chairman
of the board.
The statement was released at Lajes Field,
the Azores.
394 Toasts of the President, Prime Minister Marcello
Caetano of Portugal, and President Georges Pompidou
of France at a Dinner Hosted by the Prime Minister
During Meetings in the Azores.
Mr. Prime Minister, or Mr. President as
you may be called, President Pompidou,
all of the distinguished guests here this
evening:
As the one who has the privilege of
offering the last toast of the evening, I first
December 13, 1971
pay my respects to those that have pre-
ceded me.
As we sit around this table, I am sure
that all of us are aware of the fact that
perhaps never before in the history of our
nations, or the history of the world, have
1184
