[152] Apr. 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
fit far more than it sacrifices-all will
have to work together in the best interests
of the American people and the American
land. But we can do it.
Those habits of mind we will need-the
self-restraint that marks a mature society,
the foresight of consequences that alone
can insure survival in this interdependent
world, the becoming humility that accords
nature's domain an equal right to coexist
with the domain of man-can serve us
well, and not in wilderness preservation
alone. They can-indeed they must-
inform all our endeavors during the
"earth era" now dawning.
NOTE: On the same day, the White House
released a fact sheet and the transcript of a
news briefing on the wilderness preservation
proposals by Rogers C. B. Morton, Secretary,
George B. Hartzog, Jr., Director, National Park
Service, and F. Victor Schmidt, Acting Assist-
ant Director of Operations, Bureau of Sport
Fisheries and Wildlife, Department of the
Interior.
153 Letter to the President of the Senate and the Speaker
of the House Transmitting Proposals To Establish
New National Wilderness Areas. April 28, 1971
THE Wilderness Act of September 3,
1964, declared it to be the policy of the
Congress to secure for the American peo-
ple of present and future generations the
benefits of an enduring resource of wil-
derness, and for that purpose the act
established a National Wilderness Preser-
vation System.
In my special message on the environ-
ment of February 8, 1971, I stressed the
importance of wilderness areas as part
of a comprehensive open space system.
In these unspoiled lands, contemporary
man can encounter the character and
beauty of primitive America—and learn,
through the encounter, the vital lesson
of human interdependence with the nat-
ural environment.
Today, I am pleased to transmit four-
teen proposals which would add to the
National Wilderness System vast areas
where nature still predominates. These
areas are briefly described below.
(1) Simeonof National Wildlife Ref-
uge, Alaska-25,140 acres of a unique
wildlife environment: the biologically
productive lands and waters of Simeonof
Island off the coast of Alaska.
(2) North Cascades National Park,
Washington-515,880 acres in two areas
in North Cascades Park and Ross Lake
and Lake Chelan National Recreation
Areas. This nearly impenetrable wilder-
ness includes rugged alpine mountains
whose glaciers feed lakes and streams in
the virgin forests below.
(3) Isle Royale National Park, Michi-
gan-120,588 acres of island wilderness
in Lake Superior. Isle Royale is one of the
few remaining areas where the North
American timberwolf can be found along
with other relatively rare species includ-
ing the moose, beaver, mink and lynx.
(4) Sequoia and Kings Canyon Na-
tional Parks, California-721,970 acres.
With its abundant wildlife and groves of
giant sequoia trees this area of the Sierra
Nevada Mountains is an important site
for scientific research concerning natural
areas.
590
