Richard Nixon, 1971
Mar. I [81]
80 Reply to Reporters' Questions About the Bombing in
March 1, 1971
the United States Capitol.
I DON'T HAVE any new information on
it that has not already been disclosed. We
have had warnings with regard to the
bombings of the White House, the bomb-
ings of the Capitol, and so forth. We must
not allow this kind of an incident to close
these great public buildings to the people.
That is the message that I got from the
Attorney General, and Hugh Scott, and
other leaders.
These warnings will occur and incidents
of violence will occur. But the Capitol
and the White House belong to the Amer-
ican people. And if we can provide proper
security without repression so the people
can continue to go to those buildings-I
think the fact that the Attorney General
has now offered to the Congress the train-
ing for the Capitol Police force that we
have given to the Executive Protective
Service at the White House is very
important.
You know, we have a million and a
half visitors at the White House every
year. And somebody has suggested it
would be very easy for a visitor to come
into the White House with a big bag or
a shopping bag or something like that or
any receptacle which was not too obvious,
go into a restroom, leave it there, and the
place would blow. But that is one of the
risks.
The main thing-the greater risk is to
close these buildings, to be too afraid of
this. That is what violent people want.
They want to frighten public officials
and the American people into the place
where we will not have the open build-
ings, the open society that we do have.
They would like to keep the President in
Washington rather than come out in the
country.
Well, it won't work.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:30 p.m. on
arrival at the Fort Des Moines Hotel in Des
Moines, Iowa.
The explosion occurred early in the morning
on March 1, 1971.
81 Remarks to Farm Media Representatives Attending a
Briefing on Domestic Policy in Des Moines, Iowa.
March 1, 1971
Members of the Cabinet, and all of the
distinguished members of the press and
radio and TV who are here at this
meeting:
I hope we haven't delayed you too long,
but I told Herb ยน before the meeting began
that having traveled through this part of
ยน Herbert G. Klein, Director of Communica-
tions for the Executive Branch.
the country and visited virtually every
city, I guess every city that is represented
here, I did want to have the chance to at
least say hello to each of you before the
meeting began.
My own participation will have to be
brief due to the fact that tonight we are
giving a dinner for the astronauts; the
last astronaut team and all the astronauts,
as a matter of fact, will be guests of honor
361
