[263] Aug. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
Day, the first group of unemployed people
should be working in the jobs financed
by this act, which will eventually help
more than 150,000 jobless persons. I am
especially pleased that our returning
veterans will be given special considera-
tion for the newly created jobs.
The jobs which will be made available
under this act will be "real" jobs-jobs
which promise future career opportuni-
ties. At the same time, the work per-
formed by participants in this program
will help meet some of our needs in such
fields as environmental protection, health,
education, public safety, housing, recrea-
tion, public facility maintenance, and
rural development.
I want to emphasize that all govern-
mental units will be eligible to receive
these funds. Cities and counties of more
than 75,000 population and all State gov-
ernments will be asked by the Secretary
of Labor to serve as his program agents.
It will be the responsibility of these agents
to develop plans that will ensure equitable
distribution of funds among eligible ap-
plicants, taking into account the number
of unemployed in each applicant's area,
the priority of public service needs, and
the capacity of the applicant to carry out
the requirements of the program.
The Emergency Employment Act pro-
vides a great opportunity for governments
at all levels to plan and work together to
provide necessary jobs for unemployed
persons.
NOTE: As enacted, the bill (H.J. Res. 833) is
Public Law 92-72 (85 Stat. 182).
264 Address to the Nation Outlining a New Economic
Policy: "The Challenge of Peace.”
August 15, 1971
Good evening:
I have addressed the Nation a number
of times over the past 2 years on the prob-
lems of ending a war. Because of the
progress we have made toward achieving
that goal, this Sunday evening is an ap-
propriate time for us to turn our attention
to the challenges of peace.
America today has the best opportunity
in this century to achieve two of its great-
est ideals: to bring about a full generation
of peace, and to create a new prosperity
without war.
This not only requires bold leadership
ready to take bold action-it calls forth
the greatness in a great people.
Prosperity without war requires action
on three fronts: We must create more
and better jobs; we must stop the rise in
the cost of living; we must protect the
dollar from the attacks of international
money speculators.
We are going to take that action-not
timidly, not half-heartedly, and not in
piecemeal fashion. We are going to move
forward to the new prosperity without war
as befits a great people-all together, and
along a broad front.
The time has come for a new economic
policy for the United States. Its targets are
unemployment, inflation, and interna-
tional speculation. And this is how we
are going to attack those targets.
First, on the subject of jobs. We all
know why we have an unemployment
problem. Two million workers have been
released from the Armed Forces and de-
fense plants because of our success in
886
