Richard Nixon, 1971
June 24 [208]
faith. We have different religions and dif-
ferent backgrounds, but she would say
that religious faith had sustained her
through some very difficult times: the
death of two sons, and a deep depression,
and other tragedies. But that faith was
there, and it meant more than that, too.
Finally, she would want me to say to
you that we in this country should dedicate
ourselves to the cause of peace. She would
say that because she deeply believed, be-
cause of her religious faith, and because
of conviction, too, in peace-but because
she would know from her own sense of
history, as you know from your sense of
history, that, at this time, whether we are
to have peace in the world, peace not
just next year or the year after, but peace
for a generation for all of these young peo-
ple who sit here in this land; if we are
going to have it for 25 years, something
we have not had in this century, it is
going to depend upon the leadership of
America.
Many of us would rather that it was not
that way. America, as a world power, did
not ask for the power. But here we are in
this last third of the century, the strong-
est nation in the world, the richest nation
in the world, and the decisions we make,
the stamina we have, the character that
we display will determine whether we can
have peace in the world.
I simply want to say to you, I believe
we can. We are ending a war in which we
are presently engaged. It will end, and it
will end in a way that will build a more
lasting peace.
We are attempting to break down the
barriers between nations and peoples in
the world, nations with different philoso-
phies, peoples of different races, so that
these children may not only live in a
peaceful world but in an open world where
they can go to all the nations of the world
and know all the people of the world—and
what a wonderful experience that is.
Finally, I think my mother would want
to leave another thought with you. It is
very simply this: that what really counts
is the spirit of a country and the spirit of
an individual. I told you what our
heritage was. My parents were not rich
people; but they were hard workers. We
had to work our way through school, but
they helped. And while they were cer-
tainly not rich in terms of material goods,
they were very rich in character and
spirit. And that meant a great deal to all
of us as we grew up.
Let's look at America today in that
same context. We are the richest country
in the world and the strongest country in
the world. The question is: Does America
have the spirit that we need?
Here, may I say to the Junior Historical
Society: Go back and look to this coun-
try's history; be proud of it. One hundred
and ninety years ago, when we were a
weak nation and a poor nation, America
caught the imagination of the world be-
cause, while it was poor in goods, it was
rich in spirit. The spirit of a person, the
spirit of a nation comes from people like
you,
from the heartland of America, from
your character, from your determination.
Keep that spirit. Be proud of your Nation.
Whatever your job is, remember, you
can contribute to a better America and to
a more peaceful world. Everybody can't
be President of the United States, and
everybody can't be a Governor or a Con-
gressman or a Secretary of Agriculture,
or the principal of a school. But whether
we are workers or teachers or farmers, or
whatever we are, we, in our own ways,
can contribute to a better land.
I conclude simply by saying: This is a
773
