Richard Nixon, 1971
Dec. 10 [387]
of such services kept to an absolute
minimum.
A second imperative is the protection of
children from actual suffering and depri-
vation. The administration is already mov-
ing on this front, under a policy of con-
centrating assistance where it will help the
most--a policy certain to suffer if Title
V's scatteration of attention and resources
were to become law. Action we are pres-
ently taking includes:
-Expansion of nutritional assistance to
poor children by nearly tripling par-
ticipation in the food stamp program
(from 3.6 million people to 10.6 mil-
lion people) and doubling support for
child nutrition programs (from less
than $600 million to more than $1.2
billion) since 1969.
-Improvement of medical care for
poor children through the introduc-
tion of more vigorous screening
and
treatment procedures under
Medicaid.
—More effective targeting of maternal
and child health services on low in-
come mothers who need them most.
Furthermore, Head Start continues to
perform both valuable day care and early
education services, and an important ex-
perimentation and demonstration func-
tion which identifies and paves the way for
wider application of successful techniques.
And the Office of Child Development
which I established within the Depart-
ment of Health, Education, and Welfare
in 1969 provides overall leadership for
these and many other activities focused on
the first five years of life.
But, unlike these tried and tested pro-
grams for our children, the child develop-
ment envisioned in this legislation would
be truly a long leap into the dark for the
United States Government and the Amer-
ican people. I must share the view of those
of its supporters who proclaim this to be
the most radical piece of legislation to
emerge from the Ninety-second Congress.
I also hold the conviction that such far-
reaching national legislation should not,
must not, be enacted in the absence of a
great national debate upon its merit, and
broad public acceptance of its principles.
Few contend that such a national de-
bate has taken place. No one, I believe,
would contend that the American people,
as a whole, have determined that this is
the direction in which they desire their
government and nation to go.
Specifically, these are my present objec-
tions to the proposed child development
program:
First, neither the immediate need nor
the desirability of a national child devel-
opment program of this character has
been demonstrated.
Secondly, day care centers to provide
for the children of the poor so that their
parents can leave the welfare rolls to go
on the payrolls of the nation, are already
provided for in H.R. 1, my workfare legis-
lation. To some degree, child development
centers are a duplication of these efforts.
Further, these child development pro-
grams would be redundant in that they
duplicate many existing and growing
Federal, State and local efforts to provide
social, medical, nutritional and education
services to the very young.
Third, given the limited resources of
the Federal budget, and the growing
demands upon the Federal taxpayer, the
expenditure of two billions of dollars in a
program whose effectiveness has yet to be
demonstrated cannot be justified. And
the prospect of costs which could even-
tually reach $20 billion annually is even
more unreasonable.
1177
