Richard Nixon, 1971
Mar. 22 [109]
veyance and between various levels of
government. A multitude of government
jurisdictions, public authorities and pri-
vate companies must learn to work closely
together if our needs are to be met in a
comprehensive manner. The legislation I
present to the Congress will therefore
require that transportation plans be de-
veloped in coordination with the develop-
ment plans prepared under my proposed
Special Revenue Sharing Programs
for Urban and Rural Community
Development.
RECOGNIZING DIVERSITY
Just as each unique individual has
unique transportation problems, so do
cities, States and other governmental
jurisdictions. The single most important
fact about our Special Revenue Sharing
Program for Transportation is that it
recognizes this diversity. It combines the
resources of the Federal Government with
the flexibility of State and local govern-
ments. It provides the best way to meet
the problems which diversity implies by
utilizing the energies which diversity
produces.
The White House
March 18, 1971
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: On the same day, the White House
released the transcript of a news briefing by
Secretary of Transportation John A. Volpe and
two fact sheets on the program.
On April 6, 1971, the White House released
the transcript of a news briefing by Edwin L.
Harper, Special Assistant to the President, on
the hold harmless base line figures for States
and localities under special revenue sharing,
and a fact sheet on the figures for transporta-
tion special revenue sharing.
109 Message to the Congress Transmitting First Annual
Report on Federal Activities in the Fields of Juvenile
Delinquency and Youth Development.
March 22, 1971
To the Congress of the United States:
I have the honor to present herewith a
report of Federal activities in juvenile
delinquency, youth development, and re-
lated fields, as required by section 408 of
the Juvenile Delinquency Prevention and
Control Act of 1968 (Public Law
90-445).
The report covers the period from
July 1, 1968, to June 1970, and evaluates
activities of the Youth Development and
Delinquency Prevention Administration
(formerly the Office of Juvenile Delin-
quency and Youth Development) in the
Social and Rehabilitation Service of the
Department of Health, Education, and
Welfare, which is responsible for the pro-
gram. It also includes a description of the
activities of other Federal agencies and
Departments in the field of juvenile
delinquency.
Early in 1970 it became evident that
certain changes in direction and emphasis
in the program of the Youth Develop-
ment and Delinquency Prevention Ad-
ministration would be highly desirable.
447
