Richard Nixon, 1971
June 22 [206]
I don't think so. As I go across this
land I am always reassured as I see so
many Americans that have a deep con-
viction about the goodness of this coun-
try, who give of their time and their
efforts to make it a better country, who
are proud of what this Nation has done
for its own people and what it has done
in its leadership abroad. And yet, of
course, there are other voices that are
heard throughout the land: those that
run America down, those that say our
system is rotten, those that say that Amer-
ica is an ugly country, those who say
wouldn't it be well if some other nation
were in a position of leadership and
therefore follow with the proposition that
America withdraw into itself and get
away from the position of world leader-
ship in which it presently finds itself, with
that leadership thrust upon
thrust upon it—not
sought, but thrust upon it-because of
the accidents of history, the fact that in
the free world there is no other nation
rich enough or strong enough to assume
that position of leadership.
What does all this have to do with doc-
tors? Very simply this: In a community,
a doctor is listened to. He is listened to
about the health, of course, of his pa-
tients. But an individual can be physically
healthy and he can be without any health
in a moral, in a spiritual sense, without
character. A nation can be physically
strong and unless it has moral character
and stamina and faith in itself, and con-
fidence, that nation is weak in a way
that it cannot compensate with all the
physical strength in the world.
So we go back to the early days of this
Republic 190 years ago-weak, poor, but
strong in spirit. And here is America—
rich, strong. Question: Are we weak in
spirit?
And the answer, of course, will be found
not simply in what a President says or a
Senator-and we have some distinguished
Senators here or a Congressman or a
Governor. But it comes from leaders
throughout the country like yourselves.
That is why when I speak of politics, I do
not speak in a partisan sense. I do not
speak in the special sense in which you
are concerned about what government is
going to do to the medical profession. But
I speak in this sense: You know what a
good country this is. You know what a
great education you have. You know that
when somebody is really ill, that the best
medical care in the world is here and not
in some other country, generally speaking.
You know that as far as this system
that has been run down so much around
the world that when you go around the
world to all the other countries, they look
to America, and the traffic, where there
is traffic, is usually all one way. They are
coming this way, they are not going the
other way, when people have a choice.
You know that this system of govern-
ment that we have talked about and this
economic system has its faults. There are
too many poor people in America. There
is too much discrimination and prejudice
and all these other problems. But look at
America's strengths. Look at the fact
that there is more freedom, more oppor-
tunity, there is more income, even for
the poor, because of the wealth of our
country, than there is in 85 percent of
the rest of the world.
So here we stand, looking at America.
Let us examine its faults. Let us correct
them. We need your help in your special
field. But let us also recognize that in this
particular period of this Nation's history—
and this was not true 190 years ago-the
health of America in this broader sense,
769
