Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 8 [48]
loan funds for the restoration and reha-
bilitation of historic buildings because of
the age and often the location of such
buildings. Finally, there are many historic
buildings under Federal ownership for
which inadequate provision has been
made for restoration and preservation.
-I shall propose tax measures designed
to overcome these present distortions
and particularly to encourage the res-
toration of historic buildings.
-I shall propose new legislation to per-
mit Federal insurance of home im-
provement loans for historic residen-
tial properties to a maximum of
$15,000 per dwelling unit.
-I am recommending legislation to
permit State and local governments
more easily to maintain transferred
Federal historic sites by allowing their
use for revenue purposes and I am
taking action to insure that no fed-
erally-owned property is demolished
until its historic significance has first
been reviewed.
IV. TOWARD A BETTER WORLD
ENVIRONMENT
Environmental problems have a unique
global dimension, for they afflict every
nation, irrespective of its political institu-
tions, economic system, or state of de-
velopment. The United States stands
ready to work and cooperate with all
nations, individually or through interna-
tional institutions, in the great task of
building a better environment for man.
A number of the proposals which I am
submitting to Congress today have
important international aspects, as in the
case of ocean dumping. I hope that other
nations will see the merit of the environ-
mental goals which we have set for our-
selves and will choose to share them with
us.
more
At the same time, we need to develop
effective environmental efforts
through appropriate regional and global
organizations. The United States is par-
ticipating closely in the initiatives of the
Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Development (OECD), with its
emphasis on the complex economic aspects
of environmental controls, and of the
Economic Commission for Europe
(ECE), a U.N. regional organization
which is the major forum for East-West
cooperation on environmental problems.
Following a United States initiative in
1969, the North Atlantic Treaty Organi-
zation has added a new dimension to its
cooperative activities through its Com-
mittee on the Challenges of Modern
Society.ยน CCMS has served to stimulate
national and international action on many
problems common to a modern tech-
nological society. For example, an im-
portant agreement was reached in Brussels
recently to eliminate intentional dis-
charges of oil and oily wastes by ships
into the oceans by 1975 if possible or, at
the latest, by the end of the decade.
CCMS is functioning as an effective
forum for reaching agreements on the de-
velopment of pollution-free and safe auto-
mobiles. Work on mitigating the effects
of floods and earthquakes is in progress.
These innovative and specific actions are
1 A White House announcement of the des-
ignation of Russell E. Train, Chairman, Coun-
cil on Environmental Quality, as United States
Representative to the Committee on the Chal-
lenges of Modern Society was released on Jan-
uary 13, 1971, and is printed in the Weekly
Compilation of Presidential Documents (vol.
7, p. 59).
139
