[112] Mar. 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
of building America. Part of our rethink-
ing of this matter must look to the past
so that we may properly meet the needs
of the present and prepare for the possi-
bilities of the future.
Volunteer service in poverty areas is a
case in point. We already have consider-
able experience in dealing with the prob-
lems of poverty through the use of volun-
teers. Now we must build upon this
experience and find new ways to use more
effectively the volunteers presently serving
in poverty areas, as well as in all other
areas, and to stimulate new programs so
that additional numbers of volunteers can
assist in the solution of community and
national problems.
In line with this effort to build on what
we have learned, Action would function
with particular concern for these basic
principles:
-It would encourage local initiative,
and would support local programs to
solve local problems.
-Where appropriate, the new agency
would assign volunteers to assist, and
work under the technical supervi-
sion of other Federal agencies, State
and local agencies or organizations,
and private sponsors.
-The services of local part-time vol-
unteers would be sought and sup-
ported in the effort to accomplish
specific jobs. They would be assisted,
when necessary, by full-time volun-
teers.
-Universities and colleges, State, city
and private organizations must be
engaged in the effort to broaden op-
portunities for volunteer service and
under the new agency they would be
assisted in these efforts.
-Finally, to meet the increasing need
for skilled volunteers Action would
give increased emphasis to recruiting
and applying the skills of trained
craftsmen and professional workers.
FUNDING
To insure that the new agency has the
financial resources to begin working to-
ward the goals I have outlined, I will seek
for this agency an additional $20 million
above the budget requests I have already
submitted for the component agencies.
These funds would be directed primarily
to finding new ways to use volunteer
services.
CONCLUSION
The early nineteenth century observer
of America, Alexis de Tocqueville, was in-
trigued by the propensity of Americans
to join together in promoting common
purposes. "As soon as several of the in-
habitants of the United States have taken
up an opinion or a feeling which they
wish to promote in the world, they look
out for mutual assistance, and as soon as
they have found one another out, they
combine. From that moment they are no
longer isolated men, but a power seen
from afar. . . ."
Though we have seen the success of
Government volunteer efforts in the past
ten years, I believe voluntary citizen serv-
ice is still little more than a power seen
from afar. In relation to its potential,
this power is virtually undeveloped. We
must develop it.
There are those today, as there always
will be, who find infinite fault with life
in this Nation and who conveniently for-
get that they share responsibility for the
quality of life we lead. But our needs are
too great for this attitude to be accepted.
America belongs to all of its people. We
470
