[305] Sept. 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
because you are opening the great vistas
of the unknown. And, as a result of explor-
ing them and opening them, it is going to
mean a better life for our people, and a
better life and, we hope, a peaceful life
with peaceful production for all the peo-
ple of the world.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:58 p.m.
306 Statement Announcing Authorization of a Second
Experimental Fast Breeder Reactor.
September 26, 1971
I KNOW that people in this tri-cities area
are aware of our national energy policy
announced in my message of June 4, 1971.
At that time I called on the private
sector to join Government in financing one
demonstration liquid metal fast breeder
reactor, to begin to move this Nation into
an era of plentiful, clean, and safe atomic
power.
Today I am happy to be able to say that
private industry has, according to our lat-
est information, subscribed over $200
million for this important project. This
assures that our first reactor can go into
construction. Further, I have decided to
order the authorization of a second liquid
metal fast breeder reactor in order that
we can move forward as rapidly as pos-
sible toward the achievement of our
energy goals.
We are not today in a position to an-
nounce the locations of these experimental
reactors. But those interested in the con-
tinued growth of the Pacific Northwest
recognize the unique position which the
Hanford Reservation occupies in the fu-
ture of atomic energy in our Nation. I
am confident that Hanford will continue
to grow and that this area will most as-
suredly prosper as we move forward with
the liquid metal fast breeder reactor and
other energy programs.
NOTE: The statement was released at the
Atomic Energy Commission's Hanford Works
near Richland, Wash.
307 Statement About Government-Industry Cooperation in
Energy Resource Development. September 26, 1971
AN AMPLE supply of energy has long
been recognized as a central element in
a healthy economy. To improve the qual-
ity of life for all, it is also important that
Americans have energy that is clean,
energy that does not pollute.
On June 4 of this year, in a special mes-
sage to the Congress on the subject of our
national energy, I announced a broad
program of commitment and action to
insure that this generation of Americans
and future ones will enjoy adequate sup-
plies of clean energy.
The Hanford fast flux test facility now
under construction is a major advance in
this program. This technology will de-
velop into the liquid metal fast breeder
reactor, a process that will yield abundant
energy that is clean and inexpensive.
In the June 4th message, I committed
1002
