Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 25 [75]
issues of its bilateral strategic arms
limitation talks with the USSR. We
recognized our obligation to keep our
allies fully informed and to seek their
ideas. We have made clear that we
would make no agreement which
sacrificed their interests.
-At the milestone ministerial sessions
of the North Atlantic Council in May
and December 1970, we and our al-
lies undertook and completed a fun-
damental review of Alliance defense
strategy and posture.
But consultation is not an end in itself.
What makes it imperative is the agenda
before us.
Western Europe is uniting, and will
soon be in a position to forge an identity of
its own, distinct from America within the
Atlantic world. As nations and peoples we
in the West now share both the horizons
and the burdens of the most advanced
modern societies. This challenges us to de-
velop a partnership engaging the collec-
tive energies and wisdom of our fifteen
sovereign states.
The expansion of Soviet military power
has put NATO's postwar reliance on U.S.
strategic nuclear strength into a new per-
spective. America's guarantee of nuclear
defense remains crucial, but it can no
longer be the sole basis of Allied deter-
rence. The constant evolution in strategic
conditions-in arms control as well as in
weaponry-is of vital concern to our allies
as well as to us. This requires us to adapt
our Alliance strategy to new conditions
and share its burdens.
The cruel and unnatural division of
Europe is no longer accepted as inevitable
or permanent. Today, there is a growing
impatience with confrontation. We and
our allies seek a European détente. But we
know that we cannot achieve it if we let
slip away the close friendships in the West
and the basic conditions of stability which
have set the stage for it. This obligates our
allies and ourselves to conduct our diplo-
macy in harmony, as we jointly and
severally seek concrete negotiations on the
range of issues in order to make détente
a reality.
In our consultation on this agenda, I
have assured our allies and friends in
Europe that the United States will con-
tinue to play a role of leadership, com-
mensurate with our position in the world.
But America's task today-as the Nixon
Doctrine reflects-is to evoke the contri-
bution which the Alliance is capable of
making. This new purpose of our lead-
ership and partnership will test our ma-
turity and compassion just as the Marshall
Plan tested our energy and technical skill.
The Challenge of European Unity. The
European Community is on the threshold
of a momentous advance. Last year, the
Commission of the Community began
negotiating with Great Britain, Norway,
Denmark, and Ireland for their full mem-
bership. It opened talks with Sweden,
Austria, Switzerland, and other members
of the European Free Trade Association
looking toward some form of relationship.
The prospect of an expanded Commu-
nity-and the determination which
emerged to move toward monetary and
economic union-make the Community a
potential economic giant. If these come to
pass, the major economies of the continent
will be combined into a vast industrial
power second only to the United States.
Our friends must soon decide, then,
how they see Europe's role in the world
and its relationship with us. The form and
degree of its unity is for Europeans to set-
tle. The United States has always sup-
ported the strengthening and enlargement
231
