[278] Aug. 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
the Panel have provided increased knowl-
edge of the effects of Government patent
policy on the public interest. More specifi-
cally, the studies and experience over the
past seven years have indicated that:
(a) A single presumption of ownership
of patent rights to Government-sponsored
inventions either in the Government or
in its contractors is not a satisfactory basis
for Government patent policy, and that a
flexible Government-wide policy best
serves the public interest;
(b) The commercial utilization of
Government-sponsored inventions, the
participation of industry in Government
research and development programs, and
commercial competition can be influenced
by the following factors: the mission of
the contracting agency; the purpose and
nature of the contract; the commercial
applicability and market potential of the
invention; the extent to which the inven-
tion is developed by the contracting
agency; the promotional activities of the
contracting agency; the commercial
orientation of the contractor and the ex-
tent of his privately financed research in
the related technology; and the size, na-
ture and research orientation of the per-
tinent industry;
(c) In general, the above factors are
reflected in the basic principles of the
1963 Presidential Policy Statement.
Based on the results of the studies and
experience gained under the 1963 Policy
Statement certain improvements in the
Policy have been recommended which
would provide (1) agency heads with ad-
ditional authority to permit contractors to
obtain greater rights to inventions where
necessary to achieve utilization or where
equitable circumstances would justify
such allocation of rights, (2) additional
guidance to the agencies in promoting
the utilization of Government-sponsored
inventions, (3) clarification of the rights
of States and municipal governments in
inventions in which the Federal Govern-
ment acquires a license, and (4) a more
definitive data base for evaluating the ad-
ministration and effectiveness of the
Policy and the feasibility and desirability
of further refinement or modification of
the Policy.
I have approved the above recommen-
dations and have attached a revised State-
ment of Government Patent Policy for
your guidance. As with the 1963 Policy
Statement, the Federal Council shall
make a continuing effort to record, moni-
tor and evaluate the effects of this Policy
Statement. A Committee on Government
Patent Policy, operating under the aegis
of the Federal Council for Science and
Technology, shall assist the Federal Coun-
cil in these matters.
This memorandum and statement of
policy shall be published in the Federal
Register.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The text of the memorandum was re-
leased at San Clemente, Calif.
The statement of policy mentioned in it is
printed in the Federal Register of August 26,
1971 (36 F.R. 16889).
920
