Richard Nixon, 1971
Sept. 25 [299]
know them all so well, but I think you all
want to welcome your people from Mon-
tana, as they are here.
Mike Mansfield, the Majority Leader
of the Senate.
Of course, the Governor of the State of
Montana. Governor.
And the Congressman from this district,
Dick Shoup.
The Congressman from the other dis-
trict in Montana, Congressman Melcher.
Now, all of you will have noted that
this is a totally bipartisan group. [Laugh-
ter] And that is the spirit in which this
visit has been arranged.
I want to say first that I have many
pleasant memories of visits to this State.
I have been to a number of cities. I recall
visits to Butte and Billings and to Great
Falls and to Bozeman and also, of course,
to the State capital, to Helena. I am very
proud that this is the first time I have had
a chance to visit Montana as President
of the United States.
I am also equally proud that Mike
Mansfield arranged that this is the first
time I have had any chance ever to come
to Kalispell in this area. I am glad to be
here in this beautiful part of the
country.
Now, as you have probably noted, the
Majority Leader of the Senate and the
President of the United States have reg-
ular meetings, usually at breakfast, in ad-
dition to the meetings that we have in the
Cabinet Room, concerning legislation. I
am sure that many of you wonder what
those meetings concern. Well, obviously
they concern the affairs of state. They nat-
urally involve matters on which we some-
times disagree, disagree not as partisans,
but disagree because there are areas where
different people, working toward the same
goal, might want to take different roads.
But I think you will all be glad to know
that there is one subject on which we have
no disagreement whatever. That is on
the beauty of the Big Sky Country.
I want to say something about your
representatives, both the Republican as
well as the two Democrats, in the Con-
gress of the United States from Montana.
Many people who come to Washington-
they get Potomac fever, and that means
they really get so taken with Washington
they forget the folks back home. I have
never yet met a Senator or a Congress-
man from Montana who didn't love Mon-
tana most of all, and that is true of yours,
I can assure you.
I think I can tell you why. There is a
story-I don't know whether it is true or
not; I couldn't believe it when I saw it
in my notes, and I was not able to check it
with Mike or Dick or Congressman
Melcher on the way out-there is a story
about a big wind that came up in Helena,
the State capital, so big, as a matter of
fact, that it turned the Goddess of Liberty
statue around so that it was facing away
from the city.
There were those, not from Montana,
of course, and not from Helena, who said
that what really was happening was that
the Goddess of Liberty was turning her
back on the city. I don't think that was the
case. I think what the Goddess of Liberty
was really doing was turning out so that
she could really see this beautiful country.
This is a beautiful country, and you can
be very proud to live in it. And as I speak
of this country, I think it is particularly
appropriate that it is the Big Sky Country.
It is an open country. There is still lots of
ground out here, lots of beautiful terri-
tory for people to see, for people to visit,
for people to live in.
That brings me to a point on which
71-234-72-65
981
