[304] Sept. 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
really very heartwarming.
I know you know the people from your
own State who are here, but I know that
you would all want to give a hand to the
Governor, Governor Evans. I said when
the Governor was elected, and I said in
1968: He is, without question, one of the
outstanding Governors in this country-
progressive, strong, intelligent. I am very
proud that he is here in the State of
Washington.
More important, of course, I think you,
too, should see Mrs. Nixon and Mrs.
Evans.
Now, we have a very distinguished man
traveling with us who is going on to
Alaska. He is a man you can all see
without any problem when he gets up
here he could be playing on that team,
incidentally-the Secretary of the Inte-
rior, the biggest man in the Cabinet,
Rogers Morton.
And also the mayor, Mayor Proctor,
and your representative, Representative
Bledsoe. Wouldn't you like to say hello
to them?
Now that I have introduced all of these
celebrities, I would just like to say a word
to this wonderful group here about the
visit that we are paying to this State and
the visit that we will be paying later in the
day to Anchorage, Alaska, and its
significance.
First, I am very appreciative of the fact
that I am in a town, or at least in the air-
port of a town, that is very much like the
town in which I grew up, Whittier, Cali-
fornia. I went to a small college, a small
coeducational college, a Friends college,
and I have always had no regrets about it.
I deeply believe in the small, independent
colleges, and I am glad that in this city
you have two, Whitman College and
Walla Walla College.
I also think you should know that I
received what to me, in all my travels
around the country, is perhaps the great-
est compliment in the way of a gift that I
could possibly receive. Could you bring
that up here a moment? 1
Now I will tell you a little story. As you
probably guessed, I am somewhat of a
football fan, as many of you are. But I
went out for football 4 years at Whittier
College and never made a letter. So, con-
sequently, to meet these men from this
team and to know that I was selected as
an honorary captain to the team really
made me very, very proud.
Let me say, incidentally, speaking here
in the State of Washington, I happened
to check over the sport pages today-
rather big day for Washington teams yes-
terday. The Huskies beat TCU [Texas
Christian University], a strong team in
that Southwest Conference.
And Washington State, the Cougars,
broke that winning streak-I remember
back in the days of Babe Hollingsberry
when they used to beat Southern Cal-
but now here they go off and beat Minne-
sota and surprised a lot of people.
But most important, the Missionaries
beat Eastern Oregon, and Steve Wash-
burn now is not going to wash his foot for
a few days, after that.
But on from football to the subject of
much greater seriousness, and one which I
know will be of interest particularly to the
young people here, and also to your
parents, because you are interested, of
course, in what happens, as we are, and
I am, to our children. I know, too, that a
tragedy occurred in this city, and that all
1 The President received a blue Whitman
football jersey bearing his name and the num-
ber "" from Steve Washburn, co-captain of
the Whitman College football team.
996
