Richard Nixon, 1971
May 15 [168]
historic characteristics. I am also propos-
ing that tax laws be amended to encourage
restoration of historic buildings.
As we approach the American Bicen-
tennial, it is fitting that we devote greater
attention to the protection and enhance-
ment of our cultural heritage. By my order
today I am directing Federal agencies to
assure that the Government's own historic
properties are identified, nominated for
listing on the National Register, and pre-
served at professional standards. By action
on my other proposals, the Congress can
give new impetus to historical preserva-
tion throughout the United States.
NOTE: On May 13, 1971, the President signed
Executive Order 11593.
On the same day, the White House released
the transcript of a news briefing by Rogers C. B.
Morton, Secretary of the Interior, and Russell
E. Train, Chairman, Council on Environmental
Quality, on preservation of the cultural
environment.
167 Letter Reappointing E. Roland Harriman as
Chairman of the American National Red Cross.
May 15, 1971
Dear Roland:
The profound dedication to the welfare
of all of our fellow men which you have
demonstrated for so long as Chairman of
the American National Red Cross has
earned the gratitude as well as the deep
respect of the American people.
The extent of your work in behalf of
humanity is measureless. Past Presidents
of the United States have been happy to
express the Nation's confidence and ap-
preciation by asking you to continue your
splendid efforts through continued service
in this demanding cause, and I am es-
pecially pleased to have the opportunity
to reappoint you as Governor of the Cor-
poration for a term of three years,
from
June 12, 1971. This appointment is made
in accordance with provisions of Section
5 as amended, of the Act to incorporate
the American Red Cross.
I also designate you to act as the prin-
cipal officer of the corporation with such
title and functions as may be prescribed
in the by-laws of the corporation.
With best personal regards.
Sincerely,
RICHARD NIXON
[Honorable E. Roland Harriman, Chairman,
American National Red Cross, Washington,
D.C. 20006]
NOTE: The letter, dated May 13, 1971, was
made available to the press on May 15 at Key
Biscayne, Fla.
168 Statement About United States Military Forces in
Europe. May 15, 1971
AT THIS POINT in time, it would be
an error of historic dimensions for any
of the North Atlantic Treaty allies to re-
duce unilaterally the military forces main-
tained in Europe for the common defense.
As the most powerful member of the
Alliance, the United States bears a re-
sponsibility for leadership.
Let us persevere to carry forward the
policy of this Nation under five successive
635
