[351] Nov. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
whether it is in the field of reforms in
education and health-in all of these areas
we offer programs of reform, not just for
the sake of reform but because again in
this period of challenge, in this period of
competition, America cannot afford to
be inefficient. We can only afford the best.
And what do we find? A majority of
our Governors, Democrat or Republican,
a majority of certainly our mayors, a ma-
jority of our county officials, a majority of
the American people are for these reforms,
and it is time that the Congress of the
United States reflect the people of this
country in being for those reforms as well.
There is one final area that I speak of.
It is particularly appropriate to speak of
this area again to these dinners here in
New York and across the whole Atlantic
seaboard, representing, as you do, the
business and professional leaders of your
communities in so many respects.
As we read the pages of history, we
find those pages strewn with the wreck-
age of great civilizations in the past who
lost their leadership just at the time that
they were the richest, and at a time when
they had the capability of being the
strongest. They lost their leadership be-
cause their leader class failed to meet
the responsibilities and the challenges of
the time. They, in other words, turned
away from greatness. They grew soft.
They did not welcome the opportunity
to continue to lead, which was their des-
tiny at that time. And those civilizations
are forgotten except as they are read about
in the pages of history.
Here stands America today. There are
students of government who say that
America today, at the height of its power
militarily, at the height of its wealth eco-
nomically, with enormous world influence,
may be entering its last era, not because
of our military strength or economic pov-
erty-because we are not afflicted with
either of those problems-but because
America's leaders, in all areas of life, have
lost the will, have lost the drive, have lost
the competitive spirit which a great peo-
ple must have if they are to remain great.
I want to say to this audience here to-
night: I speak to you as one grateful for
your support in the past, not just of a
party but of a cause and of candidates,
many of them represented in this room;
I speak to you tonight also as one grateful
for your support of these dinners, and I
know that you have been most generous in
that support. But more than your money,
we need your leadership; more than your
money, we need your faith in America. We
need you to go back to your communities,
to stand up for this country, to stand up
for those values that have made Amer-
ica great, and to stand for that kind of
leadership that sees that America at this
time does not turn its back on the re-
sponsibilities of leadership in the world.
That is the challenge that we have.
In the 1770's America met that chal-
lenge. America met that challenge when
Americans were brave enough to win
greatness. And now, in the 1970's, let us
see to it that Americans have the courage
to meet the challenge by not turning away
from greatness. I believe that is the chal-
lenge of our time. I believe that is a cause
worthy of this magnificent event.
I say to you, my friends, this is a time
when America has the opportunity, as it
approaches its 200th birthday, not only
to have a new era of prosperity without
war and without inflation, but a new era
of freedom and justice and opportunity
such as we have never had before. And
more than that, it is a time when this new,
strong, young, vital America can lead the
1090
