[346] Nov. 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
was taken, one man's name stood out so far
in front of everyone else's that, well, the poll
shouldn't have been held, because it made
the rest of us feel humble, and if you had seen
the figures, it would have made you feel ex-
tremely proud.
Now, when you get a vote like that amongst
people-a written-in vote, with people being
able to make their choices of their own free
will, but being able to recognize the part that
a great country and a great leader had been
able to play-I think the time might come
when at least you should let them see you in
person, and let them pay their respects to you
and to show exactly what they think of all your
country has achieved and all we know you
are going to achieve as the leader of that great
country in the future.
So on behalf of my wife and myself, on be-
half of my own country, I want to thank you
for this opportunity. We are grateful. We want
to go ahead with this partnership between
us as independent countries, each making up
our own minds; but above all, when we make
up our minds, doing it on the basis of prin-
347
ciple, on the basis of the knowledge of the fact
that in the long run, principle, and action based
upon principle, will be successful.
But when we are doing these things, remem-
bering that of the ingredients of success, we
have them: first of all undoubtedly is the
leadership about which I have spoken.
Secondly, to realize that we must move from
a basis of strength, and it is only by strength
that we can get others to realize that not only
have we a just cause but they must listen to
that cause.
And thirdly, that when we do play a part
in world affairs, we remember that our friends
have to be thought of just as much as those we
are trying to entice into the international
comity of nations, in the interests of the world
as a whole.
Sir, I thank you for your kindness. I thank
you for having me here as your official
guest, and on behalf of my country, I will ask
everyone here now if they will please rise with
me and drink to the health of a very great
man, the President of the United States of
America. Mr. President.
Statement Following Action on Post-Freeze Economic
Stabilization Legislation by the House Committee on
Banking and Currency. November 4, 1971
ON October 7, I outlined to the Nation
a program which would continue wage
and price restraints for the purpose of
winning the battle against inflation. This
program was a continuation of the effort
which began with the go-day freeze that
was announced on August 15.
In developing this new program, we
consulted with scores of representatives of
labor and business, of farmers and con-
sumers, of the Congress and State and
local governments. These people were
virtually unanimous in their belief that the
battle against inflation must be fought
here and now, and they were together in
their determination to win that battle.
The program developed was designed to
rely primarily on the good faith and
voluntary cooperation of the American
people. It is essential that no action be
taken which allows any single interest to
escape the fair application of the law.
On October 19, I submitted to the Con-
gress legislation to amend and extend the
Economic Stabilization Act of 1970. This
legislation was designed to provide a sound
basis for the administration of the post-
freeze economic stabilization program.
Today, the House Banking and Cur-
rency Committee adopted a number of
amendments, some of which are damag-
ing and clearly inconsistent with the effort
to achieve reasonable price stability. The
most significant of these actions by 17
1078
