[89] Mar. 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
of
understood is that no program currently
funded by categorical grants need be dis-
continued under the new arrangement.
Every community would have the capacity
to maintain—and many would
would have
the capacity to expand-any
these current programs. The sugges-
tion that Model Cities programs, for
example, would be terminated is ex-
tremely misleading. That would hap-
pen only if a locality made a deliberate
decision that it wanted to terminate the
program, something it is free to do right
now. Since existing Model Cities programs
require local governments to take the ini-
tiative in applying for participation, there
is little reason to think that many cities
would be motivated to dismantle their
Model Cities projects under Special Rev-
enue Sharing—unless they were fairly
certain they could use the development
money more effectively somewhere else.
Similarly, there is little reason to fear
that the problems of impoverished areas
would somehow be neglected under this
plan. The political leverage of those who
live in poverty areas has increasingly been
focused on local governments in recent
years-and it often has greater impact in
such places than when it is diluted at the
national level.
STRENGTHENING THE FEDERAL SYSTEM
This Special Revenue Sharing program
is built upon a fundamental faith in the
inherent capacity of local governments to
govern well-if they are given sufficient
resources and sufficient responsibility.
Some will argue against such a program
by contending that a number of State and
local officials will prove to be unresponsive
or irresponsible. But this is no reason to
reject revenue sharing. Whenever one is
dealing with thousands of local officials,
there is always a danger that some will
prove to be less worthy of one's confidence
than others. That is always the risk of
moving toward greater freedom-it neces-
sarily becomes more difficult for any one
authority to guarantee how the many will
behave.
The question is not whether revenue
sharing is a foolproof way to avoid bad
decisions. No system can do that. The
question is whether on balance-reve-
nue sharing is more likely or less likely to
produce good decisions than our present
system of grants-in-aid.
The question is not whether there are
risks in this program. Of course there are.
The question is whether the rewards out-
weigh those risks.
I have already presented a number of
reasons why I believe the potential re-
wards of revenue sharing are considerable.
It should also be emphasized, however,
that the risks are really very small. The
Model Cities program has both demon-
strated and enhanced the growing capac-
ity of local leaders to deal skillfully with
developmental questions. Moreover, those
who talk about the risks of revenue shar-
ing often forget that revenue sharing will
itself do a great deal to strengthen and
improve State and local government. That
is why I so strongly believe that those who
are most concerned about the shortcom-
ings of State and local governments ought
to be most enthusiastic about a strong Fed-
eral revenue sharing program.
In many fields today, State and local
officials are often forced to function as
wards of the Federal Government. Often,
404
