Richard Nixon, 1971
Sept. 3 [284]
I again refer to the wage-price freeze.
Certainly there is not any question but
that some people who had their wage
in-
creases deferred, and others who were
unable to raise their prices suffered a hard-
ship. But where, by some individuals giv-
ing up a wage increase and others giving
up a price increase, we can stop the cost
of living for all Americans-that is worth
sacrificing for.
I am confident that with 70 percent of
the American people, as indicated by var-
ious polls, supporting that proposition,
that the spirit of sacrifice for the good of
this whole country is still alive and strong
in this country.
Then finally, there is one other element
of the American spirit to which I have
already alluded. It very simply is this: It
is essential in this period that the United
States of America as a nation, and the
American people as a people, never resign
themselves in any area to be second best.
I do not suggest that America has to be
first in everything. I do not suggest that we
will be first in everything. But I do know
this: Once a nation ceases trying to be
number one, that nation will not be a
great nation. Let it not happen to
America.
One hundred and ninety-five years ago
America was almost a totally agricultural
country-3 million people, weak mili-
tarily, poor economically-and yet that
small country on the Atlantic seaboard
caught the imagination of the world. It
was the hope of the world, not because of
its wealth or its strength, but because the
spirit of America was strong.
Americans then were proud of their
country. They had a sense of destiny.
They had a drive and a desire to do better,
to have greater freedom, greater oppor-
tunity, greater progress than any nation
in the world. It is that spirit that brought
America where it is today. It is that spirit
that America needs in this period when
we are the richest nation and the strongest
nation.
Without that spirit, all the wealth and
all the strength in the world will be noth-
ing. With that spirit, America can pro-
vide the leadership which will mean peace
for a generation, we trust, and longer,
for our children in the years ahead, and
prosperity without war.
As I speak to this great audience com-
ing from all over America, I feel that the
spirit of competition, the spirit of hard
work, the spirit of putting America first
when it requires sacrifice, that it is strong
in this organization. I think the future of
America is in good hands, and I wish you
well in everything that you do.
Ladies and gentlemen, since this is a
bipartisan audience, and since we have
Members of the House and the Senate,
both Democrats and Republicans here,
wouldn't you like to have them all up here
on the platform with me for a moment?
All the Members of the House and Sen-
ate. There they are. Give them a hand.
Now, if any of you happen to go to
Washington and visit the House or the
Senate, right now you probably see more
than on an ordinary day you will see on
the floor of the House or the Senate.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:47 p.m. in
McCormick Place.
Harold S. Nelson was general manager of
the Associated Milk Producers, Inc.
An advance text of the President's remarks
was released on the same day.
933
