Richard Nixon, 1971
I
Mar. 1 [79]
ress on the farms, on the ranches, and in
the towns and the open lands across this
Nation.
It comes to a question of whether
farmers and others in rural America want
an Agriculture Department for its own
sake or whether what they really want are
things like better farm prices, better tech-
nical assistance for agricultural problems,
wider development opportunities in rural
communities, better schools, better roads,
and so on. I think, of course, they want
the latter; they want the results.
Under the present setup, only one
Cabinet department represents the farmer
in what he wants. And under my proposed
reorganization, four cabinet secretaries—
half the Cabinet-will be speaking up for
the farmer when his diverse interests are
at stake. I submit this is not less represen-
tation, but more; it is more effective
representation because the rural interest
of America will be represented wherever
decisions are being made that affect that
interest.
I recognize that I speak today before a
bipartisan group. These proposals, I sub-
mit to you, are not made as Republican
proposals or as Democratic proposals. I
have offered them in a bipartisan spirit.
In Washington, I met with all of the
Republican Members of the House and
the Senate and all the Democratic Mem-
bers of the House and Senate at break-
fasts after the State of the Union in order
to present them in that bipartisan spirit.
That is why today as I speak to you I
seek not partisan support, but bipartisan
support, for these proposals cut to the
heart of our hopes for progress in Amer-
ica, not just this year, not just next year,
but for the balance of the decade and the
balance of the century. This Nation at the
beginning developed a Constitution and
a form of government that has survived
magnificently for 190 years, not because
that Constitution was developed out of
partisan debate-oh, there was debate all
right, but it was not on party lines; it was
on the great issue of what is best for this
new country, and out of this came a Con-
stitution and a system of government
which we have been very proud to have
since that time.
That is what we need today as we look
at the new problems of America and new
ways to meet those problems.
I have met with many groups in the
past few weeks, just as I am meeting with
this group today. I have talked with them
about these proposals for reform and re-
newal of government in America. And I
have told them that I know there are
many objections that people will raise to
this proposal and that proposal and the
rest-and objections should be raised.
That is the way to refine a proposal, to
make it better, to make it more effective
in reaching those goals that we all want
to reach.
But I have told these people, those who
object, that when they have an objection,
I challenge them to answer this one ques-
tion: I say let the first person who thinks
that we ought to keep things as they are
stand up and defend the status quo-I
have yet to have a single taker.
Now, I realize that many, and par-
ticularly many in government-and I am
proud to be, as you are proud to be, a
man who is in government-I think many
in government throughout the land were
somewhat shocked or taken aback when I
used the colloquial expression that a
majority of the American people today
are fed up with government. That doesn't
mean just Government in Washington.
But it means government at all levels.
359
