[92] Mar. 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
less than 100 people per square mile, and
all other counties, regardless of popula-
tion density, which are not included in
one of the 247 Standard Metropolitan
Statistical Areas (SMSAs) which the
U.S. Census Bureau defines around cities
of 50,000 or more.
I will also propose $100 million in addi-
tional non-formula funds for the Urban
Community Development Special Reve-
nue Sharing program, to assist those
smaller cities of population between
20,000 and 50,000 which have been re-
ceiving grant assistance from the De-
partment of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment but which would not now be eligible
for a formula share of Urban Community
Development Revenue Sharing. The Sec-
retary of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment would administer this fund on a dis-
cretionary basis. Such communities would
thus be eligible for funds from both the
urban and rural revenue sharing pro-
grams as they should be, since many
communities of this size have not only
urban problems and needs but also strong
rural development potential as economic
and social opportunity centers for nearby
rural counties. The same overlap would
be true as well of some of the smaller and
less densely populated Standard Metro-
politan Statistical Areas which have less
than 100 people per square mile, and thus
qualify for both formula grants under
Urban Community Development Special
Revenue Sharing, and use of funds from
the Rural Community Development
Special Revenue Sharing.
The Act would apply the requirements
of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of
1964 to prohibit discriminatory use of the
Federal money.
BUILDING ON SUCCESS
Conversion of the existing categorical
aid programs for agriculture and devel-
opment into Special Revenue Sharing for
Rural Community Development is a logi-
cal evolution in line with the history of
these efforts and consistent with their
basic purposes.
Over a number of years the Depart-
ment of Agriculture has been moving to
make its assistance to farmers and rural
residents more effective and flexible by a
steady process of decentralization. Placing
these programs fully in the hands of the
States is just one more step in sharpening
their ability to deliver the services they
were designed to provide. Whether the
transfer will be beneficial and the transi-
tion smooth is a question to which the
example of the Cooperative Extension
Service may provide a partial answer. The
States are ready to take charge of the
Extension Service, which they already
largely administer and which all States
now fund above the present Federal
contribution.
In the case of EDA, the Appalachian
Regional Commission and the Title V
Commissions, revenue sharing in super-
seding them would actually incorporate
the coordinated development approach
that has made them successful, at the same
time it removed some of the Federal
"fences" that may have restricted their
activities unduly in the past. The grass
roots planning process which has proved
itself under the Appalachian Regional
Commission is carried over into the state-
wide development plan I am now pro-
posing for all States under rural and urban
development revenue sharing. Close ac-
412
