[75] Feb. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
Vietnam. Throughout I will keep the
American people and the Congress fully
informed.
A negotiated settlement for all Indo-
china remains our highest priority. But if
the other side leaves us no choice, we will
follow the alternate route to peace-phas-
ing out our involvement while giving the
region's friendly countries the time and
the means to defend themselves.
EAST ASIA AND THE PACIFIC
"Today, as we look to the future of the
Pacific, we recognize that whether peace
survives in the last third of the century
will depend more on what happens in the
Pacific than in any other area of the
world."
Remarks Upon the Arrival of
Prime Minister Sato of Japan
November 19, 1969
The home of almost half the population
of the earth, second to none in the rich-
ness of its human talents and energy, pos-
sessing vast material resources, and
encompassing the central land mass of the
earth, Asia and the Pacific region lie at the
heart of the task of creating a stable struc-
ture of world peace. Since the Second
World War, it is only in this region that
developments have impelled America to
send her sons to war. Asia and the Pacific
includes territories of the seven most pop-
ulous and the three wealthiest powers,
with all that implies for the vital nature of
their interests. A Pacific power ourselves,
our security and economic interests are
inextricably involved with the future of
Asia.
It is therefore essential to our national
well-being that we accept the truth—and
that our policies reflect the fact that an
era has ended in Asia.
BEYOND THE NIXON DOCTRINE
A new Asia is emerging. The Nixon
Doctrine is only the beginning of the ad-
justment of the American role to an era
in which the last vestiges of the postwar
period will be gone.
-The old enmities of World War II
are dead or dying. So are the old
dependencies of the postwar era. The
next decade can see the burial of
both.
-Asian states are stronger. They are
able and determined to play a larger
role in shaping the international
structure of their region.
-They are joining together in regional
structures which make them more in-
dependent of, and therefore more
influential on, the policies of the
greater powers.
-Each of the major powers of the Pa-
cific region-Japan, the USSR, the
People's Republic of China, and the
United States-is faced with difficult
decisions in adjusting its policies to
the new realities of East Asia. And
the decisions they make will, in them-
selves, centrally affect the interna-
tional situation in the region.
The future structure of East Asia is,
therefore, not yet clear. It depends on
decisions not yet made. But it is clear that
it will not be subject to the dominant
influence of any one state.
It will, rather, rest on two pillars: the
collective interests of Asian nations acting
in regional groupings, and the policies of
the four major powers concerned with the
region.
Each, in the next decade, must adjust
its policies to the legitimate interests of the
others. Out of that process, which has
already begun, is being created a new
268
