[58] Feb. 11
Public Papers of the Presidents
and efficiency of State and local govern-
ment with creative Federal support.
Lincoln knew that freedom and progress
could only flourish under the orderly rule
of law; we must restore our laws and
enforcement systems to their rightful place
of honor and respect. Lincoln knew that
our power among nations grew out of our
freedoms at home; today, our ability to
support freedom around the world can
only be built on the freedom and self-
confidence of our own people.
At Gettysburg, Lincoln resolved that
"this nation, under God, shall have a new
birth of freedom. . . ." Today, as we honor
this great President, let us rededicate our-
selves to that eternal goal.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The statement was made available to
the press.
59 Remarks on Receiving the American Legion's
Distinguished Service Medal for 1969.
February 16, 1971
Commander Chamie, my colleagues in the
Congress, my comrades in the American
Legion, and ladies and gentlemen, all of
your guests:
I am very honored to receive this Dis-
tinguished Service award of the Ameri-
can Legion. And in checking the records,
I found that in the past 40 years, every
President of the United States has re-
ceived this award from the American
Legion. [Laughter]
That proves it is bipartisan. [Laughter]
But as I considered the fact that every
President of the United States has had the
high honor of receiving the Distinguished
Service award of the American Legion, I
thought that the time had come for a
President of the United States to, in effect,
give a distinguished service commenda-
tion to the American Legion. And I wel-
come that opportunity to do so tonight.
As my longtime friend from California,
Al Chamie, has already indicated, I am
this year finishing my 25th year as a
member of the American Legion. I am
proud of that association.
I also am aware of the fact that in the
past 2 years I think I have learned more
deeply than I had ever understood before
what the Legion means to America and
what it can also mean to the Commander
in Chief of our armed services in times
of great difficulty.
I recall, for example, that when a great
debate was raging in our country, a debate
between honest men of differing views, as
to what our defense forces should be and
whether we should go forward on an anti-
ballistic missile system for defense pur-
poses, that the American Legion took the
side of a strong national defense, as it
always has. It was of assistance to the
Commander in Chief who had made that
difficult decision.
I recall on November 3, 1969, when I
spoke to the Nation at a time when
thousands of very honest people who dis-
agreed with our national policy, who
called for an immediate, precipitate with-
drawal from Vietnam in a way that would
have resulted in defeat for America and
of all of our purposes in that part of the
world that at that time when I called for
a just peace, for ending the war in a way
154
