Richard Nixon, 1971
Sept. 25 [301]
took them weeks to arrive in Washington.
I asked them this question: I said, "Now,
you tell me you have been to the parks,
you have been to all the States, what was
the most beautiful place you saw?"
And they said, "Glacier Park, of all the
the places in the United States." Not only
did they like that place but they also liked
the people.
So, I say, as we meet you here, and with
this little California rain falling right now,
that I am glad to be here. Mrs. Nixon is
glad to be here to receive such a warm
welcome.
We hope that this will always be the Big
Sky Country and that people who come
across it will always say, "This is a beau-
tiful place to visit."
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:25 a.m. at
Glacier Park International Airport.
On the same day, the President flew by heli-
copter to the Libby Dam site, northwest of
Kalispell, where he activated a system for pour-
ing concrete into a new section of the dam.
300 Statement About the West Coast Dock Strike.
September 25, 1971
I AM acutely aware of the severe eco-
nomic and human impact of the west
coast longshoremen's strike and keenly
disappointed at the continued failure of
the parties to that dispute to resolve their
differences through collective bargaining.
While progress has been made over the
past few weeks, the pace of that progress
has been painfully slow and totally
unacceptable.
We cannot tolerate a continuation of
this pattern of delay and slow progress
toward an ultimate settlement. The time
is overdue for the parties involved to live
up to their responsibilities to the Ameri-
can people and to work diligently—and
301
urgently toward that settlement.
I have asked J. Curtis Counts, Secretary
Hodgson, and George Shultz to meet with
chief negotiators in Portland today to dis-
cuss how the parties can best be brought
to recognize and meet their responsibili-
ties. This strike has gone on too long al-
ready. I expect the parties to make a
renewed and determined effort to see that
it is ended and ended quickly.
NOTE: The statement was released at Kalispell,
Mont.
On September 14, 1971, the White House
released the transcript of a news briefing by
Secretary of Labor James D. Hodgson on Fed-
eral efforts to expedite a settlement in the
dock strike.
Remarks on Arrival at Portland, Oregon.
September 25, 1971
MRS. NIXON and I want to thank all
of you for your very warm welcome to
the City of the Roses. We also want you to
know that as we traveled across the coun-
try today—we started in Washington this
morning, then stopped in Montana at
Kalispell, and then we have come all the
way to Oregon-and as you cross this
country and have the chance to see the
people, as we have, you realize what a
beautiful country it is. We are very proud
to be here in one of the most beautiful
983
