[285] Sept. 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
285 Address to the Nation on Labor Day.
September 6, 1971
Good afternoon:
On this Labor Day, 1971, I call upon all
Americans to dedicate ourselves to a goal
we have rarely been able to achieve in the
past 40 years—a new prosperity without
war and without inflation.
A nation starting out in quest of a great
goal, like a young worker starting out on
his career, does not always get what it
wants; rather, a nation gets what it
deserves.
What must we do, as a nation, to
deserve a generation of peace? What must
we be, as a people, to deserve and to
achieve the new prosperity?
I would like you to join me in exploring
one of the basic elements that gives char-
acter to a people and which will make it
possible for the American people to earn
a generation of prosperity in peace.
Central to that character is the com-
petitive spirit. That is the inner drive that
for two centuries has made the American
workingman unique in the world, that has
enabled him to make this land the citadel
of individual freedom and of opportunity.
The competitive spirit goes by many
names. Most simply and directly, it is
called the work ethic.
As the name implies, the work ethic
holds that labor is good in itself; that a
man or woman at work not only makes a
contribution to his fellow man but be-
comes a better person by virtue of the act
of working.
That work ethic is ingrained in the
American character. That is why most of
us consider it immoral to be lazy or sloth-
ful-even if a person is well off enough
not to have to work or deliberately avoids
work by going on welfare.
That work ethic is why Americans are
considered an industrious, purposeful
people, and why a poor nation of 3 mil-
lion people, over a course of two centuries,
lifted itself into the position of the most
powerful and respected leader of the free
world today.
Recently we have seen that work ethic
come under attack. We hear voices saying
that it is immoral or materialistic to strive
for an ever-higher standard of living. We
are told that the desire to get ahead must
be curbed because it will leave others
behind. We are told that it doesn't matter
whether America continues to be number
one in the world economically and that
we should resign ourselves to being num-
ber two or number three or even number
four. We see some members of disadvan-
taged groups being told to take the wel-
fare road rather than the road of hard
work, self-reliance, and self-respect.
It is not surprising that so many hard
working Americans are wondering:
What's happening to the work ethic in
America today? What's happening to the
willingness for self-sacrifice that enabled
us to build a great nation, to the moral
code that made self-reliance a part of the
American character, to the competitive
spirit that made it possible for us to lead
the world?
One answer to those questions was given
in the response of the American people to
the new economic policy I announced last
month.
I called then for some degree of sacri-
934
