Richard Nixon, 1971
July 31 [245]
Let me tell you why it makes a great deal
of difference: not because we want to be
ahead of somebody else so that they can
be number two, but for two very funda-
mental reasons.
First, because in the last part of this
century, whether we have peace will de-
pend primarily upon the United States of
America. And that is a good thing for the
world because whatever you may have
heard and whatever the criticisms of
American foreign policy have been, we
can be proud of the fact that in four wars
in this century Americans have fought,
Americans have died, not for an acre of
territory, not to dominate any other coun-
try, but for the freedom of other people.
And it is that kind of leadership that the
world needs so that peace can be safe in
the world. That is why America should
maintain that strength-so a strong and
vigorous America will contribute to peace.
But then there is another reason. I know
that many of the young people here are
students of history, as I once was so many
years ago. As you study the history of great
nations, you will find that unless a people
seek great goals they lose their greatness.
Once a people decide that it doesn't
matter whether they excel, once they re-
sign themselves to be second best, then
they find that they lose in every other way.
That is the beginning of the end of great
civilizations.
I say to you today: We cannot let that
happen to America. Let us see to it that
we recognize that this country has become
great because people have dedicated
themselves to making it the country that
it is.
We have worked hard. We have had
great purpose. We have had great loyalty.
We have been willing to make great
sacrifices, and as a result we have reached
the position where today we can proudly
say to our young people: In no country
in the world today can you be born and
have the opportunity of having more free-
dom, more opportunity, better jobs,
higher wages, than in America. Let's keep
it that way, and the way to keep it that
way is to continue to work for a better
America.
That brings me now back again to this
wonderful audience that I see in front of
me, the people that I found here 29 years
ago and the people I see today.
My wife and I left Ottumwa but we
did not leave behind people who were not
our friends. Those friends we have kept
through the years, and we also took away
with us a memory, a memory of people
that were deeply religious, deeply patri-
otic, people who were self-reliant, people
who had the courage and the character
that has made this country great.
America today needs that kind of con-
tribution from its heartland. We need the
development of, the maintenance of our
American rural heartland and its strength.
I can simply say to you that here today,
at this historic moment when we dedicate
this beautiful lake, this project which is
the realization of the dreams of hundreds,
perhaps thousands, in this audience, let us
remember: It will help this area of the
country but it will also help America.
It will help America by revitalizing our
rural countryside, by allowing people to
stay here with gainful opportunities in
employment, with a better life than would
otherwise be the case.
And let us also be thankful on this par-
ticular occasion that we live in a beautiful
country. I know you hear quite often, and
we all hear those things that are wrong
about America, and there are things
wrong; but there are some who go to the
845
