Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 25 [75]
At this stage what is needed are political
decisions to move towards an agreement
on the basis of an equitable strategic rela-
tionship. We have taken this decision.
MUTUAL AND BALANCED FORCE
REDUCTIONS IN EUROPE
Last year I indicated that we needed to
study carefully mutual force reductions
in Europe as one of the most fruitful areas
for East-West dialogue. Accordingly, I
directed that our government reinforce
the preliminary work done in NATO with
an intensive analysis of the issues in an
agreement to reduce NATO and Warsaw
Pact forces.
Problems. In many respects this subject
poses even more complex problems than
strategic arms limitation:
The principal objective should be a
more stable military balance at lower
levels of forces and costs. Therefore, re-
ductions should have the effect of
enhancing defensive capabilities, so as to
diminish the incentives for attacking
forces. Even if defensive capabilities were
not actually improved, force reductions, as
a minimum, should not create offensive
advantages greater than those already
existing. Yet, reductions would tend to
favor offensive capabilities, since attack-
ing forces could concentrate while re-
duced defensive forces were compelled to
spread along a given line.
Achieving reductions that leave the
balance unaffected or, preferably, im-
prove stability, raises a number of intri-
cate technical problems. For example,
how do we establish equivalency between
opposing forces? This is already difficult
enough with respect to strategic arms limi-
tations which involve relatively few
weapons systems. In reducing conven-
tional ground and air or tactical nuclear
forces a great variety of national forces
and materiel would have to be considered.
Furthermore, there are marked differences
in the equipment, organization, and
strength both within and between the op-
posing NATO and Warsaw Pact forces.
Preparations. Following the pattern de-
veloped for SALT, we first assembled
detailed data on manpower, conventional
weapons, tactical nuclear
weapons, and
aircraft for both sides. We compared them
in areas ranging from a narrow zone in
Central Europe to ones extending up to
the Western USSR. We had to determine:
-the current balance of forces for
each category. We could then evalu-
ate the new military equation if
various forces were reduced in dif-
ferent degree, and gauge when one
side might gain a unilateral
advantage.
-our ability to verify levels of all
forces so that we can confirm
reductions.
-the measures needed to detect in-
creases in the manpower or equip-
ment of reduced forces.
Our preliminary analysis pointed up a
central problem. The Warsaw Pact can
mobilize and reinforce more rapidly than
NATO, primarily with divisions from the
USSR. Thus, in judging force reductions
we must consider not only the balance of
standing forces but what each side could
do following various periods of mobiliza-
tion and reinforcement. There are two
broad approaches to reductions:
-proportionately equal ones applying
the same percentage of reductions to
both sides.
-asymmetrical ones in which reduc-
tions by the two sides would be made
in differing amounts in different
325
