Richard Nixon, 1971
Mar. 22 [110]
a
bad rap from the press and for the wrong
reasons on his style, for example. Now,
when you take a man on because of his
accent and because he happens to be from
Texas or something like that, that is the
wrong reason. If you take a man on on
his policy, that is something else again.
No, understand, I am not complaining
about my treatment from the press. I
think it is a philosophical difference. I
have many friends in the press, personal
friends, as you are quite aware.
I have never taken on a member of the
press individually. I have never called a
publisher since I have been President. I
have never called an editor to complain
about anything. I have never called a tele-
vision station to complain about it, and I
never shall, as long as I have the oppor-
tunity to talk to the American people on
a program like this directly. Then if I fail
to communicate, it is my fault.
So, getting back to your major ques-
tion, what about the problem of Presidents
communicating with the American peo-
ple, getting it across. I don't think we can
blame the press, I don't think we can
blame the media. I really don't think you
can blame the President.
I think what it really gets down to is
that the problems are enormous, and that
the American people at the present time
are frankly just frustrated. They are
frustrated by having gone through Korea,
and then they are frustrated by having
gone through Vietnam.
When I said in an interview that there
is a new isolationism growing in the
country, I understand it. I know why peo-
ple feel that way, because they say after
all of this sacrifice, after all of this war,
for
what? Why can't we have some peace?
We don't start any wars. We don't want
anything from anybody else. Why can't
they just leave us alone?
And so for that reason, any President
who tries to see to it, to take the long view,
to see to it that we do not take that very,
very inviting but dangerous road of peace
at any price, sort of an instant peace so to
speak, any President who insists on giving
that kind of leadership is going to have
problems in communicating.
But I can also say this: Any President
who didn't do it wouldn't be able to go to
bed at night and sleep very well, knowing
what he knows. You see, I know that if
we fail, if we fail to meet America's com-
mitment in the world, to be as strong as
we need to be to deter any major aggressor
and as strong as we need to be to help our
friends with whom we have treaty alli-
ances, and to have the will just at the time
we are nearing the end to finish our in-
volvement in Vietnam in a way that
South Vietnam will be able to survive-
that is what is on the line.
I think we can do it. I think we will.
And I think that the American people will
support it. Maybe the polls will go down,
but I am not going to live or die by the
polls. If I did, I wouldn't be here now.
FOREIGN POLICY CONSULTATION
[11.] MR. SMITH. Don't you think your
job would be a lot easier if you carried
Congress with you? Now, Senator Ful-
bright has complained that Congress has
absolutely no control over foreign affairs.
Two major actions, Cambodia and Laos,
were undertaken with little information to
and without the advice of Congress.
Doesn't he have a point?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, Senator Ful-
bright has a point with regard to himself,
457
