[390] Dec. 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
program I announced then to create new
jobs and build a new prosperity.
Enactment of this bill means an increase
in exemptions for all individual taxpayers
and deductions as well for many of them,
especially for low-income persons. It
means an average saving of $200 for
every new car buyer-a fact which has
already produced a gratifying upsurge
in auto sales, and has thus provided a
major stimulus to the economy as a whole.
It means that millions of Americans who
have demonstrated their own confidence
in the economy since August 15 by buying
new cars will have a chance to receive that
saving in the form of a rebate at
Christmastime.
The act also helps meet the special
needs of working parents, by providing
them with generous new deductions for
the cost of child care.
I would have preferred the more stimu-
lative form of the job development credit
that I recommended, that is, a 10-percent
391
credit this coming year and 5 percent
thereafter. This would have had a greater
job-creating impact now when the jobs
are most needed. But the credit as enacted
will provide a significant boost.
I remain firmly opposed on principle to
the tax checkoff device for financing
presidential campaigns out of the public
treasury which is also included in this act.
By postponing the effective date, the Con-
gress has allowed ample opportunity for
reconsideration of this measure on its own
merits, rather than as part of the tax pack-
age. The Senate was right in 1967, when
by a bipartisan majority it reversed its
earlier decision and rendered inoperative
a similar plan that had been enacted in
1966. I have signed this act today because
I am confident that, with the time now
allowed for reconsideration, this provi-
sion-like the earlier one-will not be-
come operative. I strongly urge outright
repeal by the Congress of both the 1971
and the 1966 checkoff provisions.
Statement About Senate Confirmation of Lewis F.
Powell, Jr., and William H. Rehnquist as Associate
Justices of the Supreme Court. December 10, 1971
I AM extremely gratified that the Senate
has now confirmed both Lewis Powell and
William Rehnquist as Associate Justices
of the Supreme Court.
These two men have undergone inten-
sive scrutiny by the legislative and execu-
tive branches of the Federal Government
and, as reported by the Senate Judiciary
Committee, have been found "thoroughly
qualified." Indeed, I believe that they
bring to the bench such an exceptional
degree of integrity and intellect and so
keen an understanding of the judicial
process that the quality of the Court deci-
sions should be enhanced for years to
come.
They take the place of two men-
Justice Harlan and the late Justice
Black-who were among the giants of
modern Court history.
I am confident that they will fill those
vacancies with a distinction worthy of the
Court, and worthy of the men whose seats
they fill.
1182
