Richard Nixon, 1971
Dec. 24 [412]
when we know the true peace that lodges
in the heart.
As we work toward peace in the world,
let us do so both inspired and strengthened
by this peace in the heart.
As we give to one another, in the spirit
of Christmas, let us give of ourselves. For
one of the lessons of Christmas is this:
among God's greatest gifts to man is the
gift of giving itself, and the more we give
of ourselves the more of ourselves we have
to give.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The message was made available to the
press.
4II
Christmas Message to the Armed Forces.
December 24, 1971
AS WE move into this season consecrated
to the ideals of human brotherhood, for
the first time in many years this Nation
can see a day when those ideals may be-
come a reality. We see before us a genera-
tion of peace for America.
Because we have seen the potentiali-
ties of war, we know the necessity of peace.
But at this time of the year, we are espe-
cially conscious that peace is more than
a practical necessity—it is a spiritual
imperative.
We are equally conscious that the price
of peace-like the price of freedom-is
eternal vigilance. In the long journey to-
ward peace, our men and women in uni-
form have kept the vigil. It is you who
have recognized that peace without free-
dom is not acceptable, and that freedom
without strength is not possible. It is be-
cause of your devotion, your courage, and
your sacrifices that we now come to this
season of light with the firm belief that
the light will not fade again and that
there may be at last peace on earth, good
will towards men for our time and for all
time.
Mrs. Nixon and I join with a grateful
Nation in wishing you the warmest bless-
ings of this Christmas season.
412 Informal Exchange With Reporters Following the
President's Annual Physical Examination.
December 24, 1971
Q. Mr. President, how do you feel, sir?
THE PRESIDENT. Oh, fine, fine.
Q. You know, whenever you sneeze or
cough, the world takes notice. What can
you say to allay their concern that you had
to come to the hospital today?
THE PRESIDENT. It was the best day to
come, because everybody is off at the
White House, so I figured that this was
a good day for me to come for my exam-
ination, and as was the case last year, I
found that I was in good health, just as I
expected to be.
Of course, I haven't gotten the final
results here, but they tell me to just go
on doing what I have been doing.
Q. Did you have any thoughts, as you
were getting dressed after the physical,
about other persons in this hospital who
might not be as well off physically?
1209
