Richard Nixon, 1971
Mar. 18 [108]
tem, and the long delay that ensues before
senior citizens receive the real benefits of
a system that most have supported by
their contributions throughout their adult
lives.
The measure has other serious deficien-
cies in it. In this bill the Congress has
departed from the cardinal principle
which should govern the social security
system: The Congress has not provided
for sufficient revenues in the current year
to cover fully the added costs of the new
benefits. It has deferred the effective date
of increased contributions required to pay
for these new and much deserved benefits.
The net effect of the Congress action is
to raise the net cost of the benefits pro-
vided by $3.4 billion in fiscal year 1972
and by another $500 million in fiscal
1971.
year
The evidence is clear that spending be-
yond the revenues we would receive at
full employment-as was done in 1966,
1967, and 1968-was a major contribut-
ing factor to the inflation that has robbed
all of us in these recent years.
If these urgently needed social security
increases are enacted but the means to
pay for them currently are defaulted, we
are faced with the very real prospect of
increased inflation. For that reason, I urge
the Congress to act promptly on a social
security revenue measure so that the cur-
rent cost of these increased benefits will be
financed and the basic noninflationary
budgetary principle, which was embodied
in the 1972 budget I submitted to the
Congress, can be maintained.
Increasing social security benefits is es-
sential, as I have said many times. Increas-
ing social security benefits in a way that
carries with it the seeds of a resumption
of the inflation it has taken us more than
2 years to control would benefit no one.
We owe to the elderly people in this coun-
try something more than a social security
increase which is only an illusion, and
which would be eroded by inflation almost
before it is received.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 4690 is Public Law
92-5 (85 Stat. 5).
108 Special Message to the Congress on Special Revenue
Sharing for Transportation. March 18, 1971
To the Congress of the United States:
When the early settlers first encoun-
tered the American wilderness, a man's
mobility was dependent upon his strong
legs and the sharp axe with which he
cleared his path. But even in those pio-
neering times, Americans quickly came to
realize that good roads and docks and
bridges were community concerns.
Over the years, government has become
increasingly involved in improving the
Nation's transportation systems, from the
building of post roads and canals in the
early periods of our history, to the con-
struction of airports and superhighways in
recent years. The question we face today,
therefore, is not whether government
should participate in transportation mat-
ters, but how government should partici-
pate and which levels of government
should undertake which responsibilities.
These are the central questions I am ad-
439
