Richard Nixon, 1971
Jan. 29 [34]
I have in this budget proposed the out-
lines of a new process for allocating funds
according to national priorities.
Instead of continuing "more of the
same" to more than a hundred narrow
categorical grant programs, I have pro-
posed replacing them with six special reve-
nue sharing programs designed to deal
with major national problems. These are
problems that have different characteris-
tics in different parts of the country. With
these special revenue sharing funds, State
and local governments can set their priori-
ties within the national objective, design a
solution fitted to their particular needs,
and solve their problems locally.
The general revenue sharing program
provides unrestricted funds to State and
local governments to achieve our Nation's
top domestic priority-the creation of a
system of government that is effective and
responsive to the needs of all of the Ameri-
can people. General revenue sharing will
allow State and local governments to over-
come their immediate fiscal crises and to
come to grips with those problems that
concern their citizens most.
The revenue sharing programs which I
have proposed result from shared goals,
provide federally shared revenues, and
involve shared Federal-State-local re-
sponsibility for solving America's most
important problems. Our system of gov-
ernment must be one of shared goals-
shared revenues-shared responsibilities.
CONCLUSION
The 1972 budget befits a strong, free,
compassionate, and enlightened Nation.
• It reverses the trend of the past
decade toward Federal domination
of the Nation's decisions, and begins
to make government more responsive
to the will of the people.
·
·
It recognizes that a strong defense is
vital to all our objectives, most of all
to the attainment of peace.
It provides the resources needed to
meet the Nation's commitments at
home, with a new standard of fairness
to the poor and sick.
• It accepts the principle that budget
policy, together with monetary policy
and the active cooperation of the
private sector, must be used to help
achieve full employment in peace-
time with relative price stability.
This budget expresses our fiscal pro-
gram for the New American Revolution—
a peaceful revolution in which power will
be turned back to the people-in which
government at all levels will be refreshed,
renewed, and made truly responsive. This
can be a revolution as profound, as far-
reaching, as exciting, as that first revolu-
tion almost 200 years ago.
January 29, 1971
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The message as sent to the Congress
included illustrative diagrams which have not
been reproduced in this volume.
34 Message to the People of the Virgin Islands.
January 29, 1971
To the people of the Virgin Islands:
It is with great pleasure that I add to
the vivid memories I cherish of my visit
with you as Vice President. My recollec-
tion of those sunny days, warmed further
by your friendliness, made Governor
95
