Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 26 [76]
others abroad, so must Americans listen
more to each other at home. We have a
responsibility to debate the means of
achieving our foreign policy goals. But
these turbulent years have taught us not
so much that we must know the right
answers, but that we should ask the right
questions. We, therefore, have an even
greater responsibility to discuss the goals
themselves and, together, understand the
new character of America's involvement
in the world.
This partnership at home must include
the advice and support of the Congress.
Charged with constitutional responsibili-
ties in foreign policy, the Congress can
give perspective to the national debate
and serve as a bridge between the Execu-
tive and the people.
Our new direction abroad and our new
approach at home are parts of a whole.
Both rest on the belief that decisions are
made better when they are made by those
most directly concerned. At home as well
as abroad, we seek to distribute responsi-
bilities more widely, so that new partner-
ships flourish in which all contribute
their ideas as well as their energies.
The essence of any kind of partnership
is mutual respect.
We will build that mutual respect with
our friends, without dominating them or
abandoning them.
We will strive for that mutual respect
with our adversaries, without compromis-
ing our principles or weakening our
resolve.
And we will dedicate ourselves to that
mutual respect among our own people,
without stifling dissent or losing our ca-
pacity for decisive action.
In America this calls for tolerance that
leads to understanding, not for sentimen-
tality that clouds perceptions. It means as
well that compassion is a more profound
guide than righteousness. Leaders and the
public alike must pursue their goals with
a sense of interdependence.
Such qualities will enable us to bring
Americans together and, in so doing, help
to bring the world together.
NOTE: The text of the above item was issued
by the White House in the form of a 235-page
booklet entitled "U.S. Foreign Policy for the
1970's: Building for Peace; A Report to the
Congress by Richard Nixon, President of the
United States, February 25, 1971."
On the same day, the White House released
the transcript of a news briefing on the report,
held on February 23, 1971, by Dr. Henry A.
Kissinger, Assistant to the President for Na-
tional Security Affairs.
76 Remarks at the Swearing In of George Bush as
United States Representative to the United Nations.
February 26, 1971
Mr. Vice President, Members of the Con-
gress, members of the Cabinet, and all of
our distinguished guests today:
We are gathered here to swear in a new
Ambassador from the United States to
the United Nations. In swearing him in,
I am glad to see that not only are mem-
bers of the Cabinet here and other dis-
tinguished guests but Members of the
Congress with whom he has served.
I have been reminded this morning of
an anecdote from history by the chairman.
345
