Richard Nixon, 1971
Aug. 4 [250]
Government should determine what
wages should be and what prices should
be. I do not believe that. Dr. Burns does
not believe that, if you have read his
speeches over the years. He is a strong
opponent of that.
The question is: How can we address
ourselves to the problem of wages and
prices without having those mandatory
criminal penalty features which would
lead us to something we all are trying to
avoid. This is why this is a matter for
discussion. It is not one yet for decision,
but I will continue to work on individual
settlements as I have said.
Q. Mr. President, would it be fair to
say, then, that in view of what
you said
there and what you said earlier that you
will consider recommendations of the
wage and price board, that you are giving
renewed and perhaps more favorable con-
sideration to some form of wage-price
board, assuming that they don't have
penalties?
THE PRESIDENT. No. I am saying that
I shall continue the policy of moving
aggressively on individual settlements on
a case-by-case basis. Second, I will address
this particular problem in a meeting with
the major leaders of American industry
and American labor at the Productivity
Commission meeting on September 21.
Third, with regard to wage-price boards,
I have still not been convinced that we
can move in that direction and be effec-
tive. However, Secretary Connally, in his
statement this morning, raised all the
questions that should be raised on that.
As far as we are concerned, we have an
open mind in terms of examining the
various proposals to see if there is a new
approach which we may not have thought
of.
I have serious doubts that they will find
such a new approach, but I do want to
indicate that we will examine it because
we all agree that the wage-price spiral is a
significant danger to this expanding
economy. The question is, what do we do
about it, without going all the way to a
totally controlled economy.
PROGRESS AGAINST INFLATION
[13.] Q. Mr. President, Dr. Burns,
before the Joint Economic Committee,
said he didn't think we were making much
progress against inflation. Do you think
we are?
THE PRESIDENT. I read Dr. Burns'
statement quite carefully. What he was
saying is what I would say. I would say this
with regard to inflation; I would say it
with regard to unemployment: I am never
satisfied and never will be satisfied, and
anybody in the free economy is never satis-
fied and should never be satisfied, with
anything except perfection. That doesn't
mean that we are going to reach
perfection.
Now with regard to inflation, I will just
point to the numbers. Inflation, which, of
course, was boiling along when we came
into office in January of 1969, reached its
peak in 1970, 6 percent. Then the CPI
[Consumer Price Index] dropped to 4 per-
cent in the first 6 months of 1971. Now
4 percent is still too high, but that is
progress.
The GNP deflator-which of course
goes far beyond the Consumer Price
Index, as you know; the GNP deflator
covers all, the whole spectrum of the econ-
omy-in the first 6 months of 1971, was
the lowest in 3 years. That is progress—
not enough, but it is progress.
In the last month the CPI was higher
than the average it has been for the first 5
859
