[352] Nov. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
is courageous, and a man who is com-
petent in handling his duties at home,
and a man who with great dignity and
great ability has represented America in
25 countries, since he has been Vice Pres-
ident, abroad. So tonight we join together
on his birthday in saluting the Vice Pres-
ident of the United States.
Then finally, of course, I do want to
salute those of you who are the con-
tributors, those of you who did make these
dinners a success across the Nation. I
think you will be interested to note that
in checking the statistics, I find that for
a dinner in a nonelection year, this is the
most successful dinner that either major
party has ever had in history. We con-
gratulate you for making it possible. We
congratulate the dinner chairmen, wher-
ever they may be, and all the dinner com-
mittees, and, of course, all of those who
contributed so much.
So this is a great event, and a great
event at such a time as this, it seems to
me, calls for a great cause. I believe to-
night that we have a great cause. Let me
put it in historical perspective.
It was 3 years ago, just before the elec-
tions of 1968, that I addressed, along
with others, dinners across the country.
At that time we faced a great challenge.
The challenge was to end the war in
which no end was in sight. Three years
later, we face a different challenge, and
our challenge today is to win a peace and
win a peace which is in sight, and that
is a big change for America and the world.
Senator Percy has already commented
upon what we have done in bringing the
American involvement in Vietnam to an
end and bringing it—and this is vitally
important to an end in a way that will
contribute to the cause of a lasting peace
in the Pacific. That is one step toward our
goal-a goal which is much greater than
simply peace in terms of the absence of
war, a goal which is much greater than
simply ending a war in which we happen
to be involved, a goal that Americans
have not been able to realize in this whole
century: a full generation of peace.
Ending the war in Vietnam is one step
toward that goal, but looking further down
to the end of the century, other steps must
be taken now, steps which will see what
the dangers are or might be 10 years, 15
years, 20 years from now. And that is
the reason why I am making these jour-
neys, one to Moscow, one to Peking.
I have no illusions, and none of you
should have any illusions, that these trips
and these meetings between the heads of
governments of these three great powers-
the United States, the People's Republic
of China, and the Soviet Union-will
mean that the differences between our
countries will end as a result of these
meetings. Our differences are profound,
profound in their approach and their dif-
ference with regard to domestic matters,
and profoundly different in their ap-
proaches to international affairs.
But, on the other hand, we face this
choice, putting it quite bluntly: We face
the choice that continuing confrontation
between the United States and the Soviet
Union, and between the United States
and the People's Republic of China, could
run the risk of war.
We also face, on the other side, the
choice that negotiation between the
United States and the Soviet Union, and
between the United States and the Peo-
ple's Republic of China, could give us a
chance for peace. And we owe it to future
generations to seize that chance and not
let it pass by-the chance to build a
generation of peace.
1092
