Richard Nixon, 1971
[220]
July 3
These are great goals, but we could
reach all these material goals and still not
be worthy of our heritage unless we have
the "Spirit of '76."
The new United States of America 195
years ago was a small nation of only 3 mil-
lion people, as the Chief Justice pointed
out. It was weak militarily, poor econom-
ically, and yet in the face of all that,
Thomas Jefferson said, we act not "for
ourselves alone, but for the whole human
race." And the wonder of it was that the
world believed him!
America caught the imagination of the
world in those days, not because she was
strong or rich but because the young
Nation stood for something far more im-
portant. It had a flaming idealism, a high
purpose, a free spirit that has come to
be called the "Spirit of '76." The Ameri-
can people believed in themselves, in their
country, and their ideals. America 195
years ago was weak in arms and poor in
goods, but rich in spirit. Let it not be said
of our America today that we were strong
in arms and rich in goods, but poor in
spirit.
For we are not poor in spirit. The Amer-
ican spirit which inspired these historic
documents around us here in this Archives
lives today, hard at work, stronger than
ever. We have been reminded eloquently
of it by the Chief Justice and the Speaker,
and as we celebrate the Fourth of July
tomorrow, on Sunday, we will be re-
minded of another great source of Amer-
ica's continuing strength our deep
religious faith.
To look at America with clear eyes
today is to see every reason for pride and
little for shame, great cause for gratitude
and little for regret, strong grounds for
hope and none for despair. The crucial
challenge now is to hold the high ground
of confidence, courage, and faith that is
rightly ours, and to avoid the quicksand
of fear and doubt.
If we are to measure up as Americans,
and if America is to measure up as a na-
tion, the commitment which each of us
makes to freedom cannot be less than the
total commitment made by the 56 patriots
who put
put their names to the Declaration of
Independence so long ago.
There is a famous painting of these men
which hangs in the Roosevelt Room across
from the President's office in the White
House. It is unusual because for some
reason the artist never finished it. Many of
the figures in the background of the scene
are only sketched in or left blank. That
painting reminds us of a profound truth.
The American Revolution is unfinished
business, with important roles still open
for each of us to play.
The message of that uncompleted
painting is this: Any American can be a
signer of the Declaration of Independ-
ence, the Constitution, the Bill of Rights.
We write our names with the lives we live.
One of America's new voters, Miss Cyn-
thia Frink, 18 years of age, signed her
name to America's highest ideals in her
high school valedictory speech a few eve-
nings ago. Her message is for all of us
on this Independence Day. Listen to her:
"I think the time has come to defend
America. I simply feel that on such an
evening as this, thought should be given
to the goodness of America, to the freedom
it provides, greater than anything else
anywhere on earth, even the liberty to
attack the government which makes that
freedom possible. We are truly man's
hope. No country has stood more firmly
than she; been more just as she is just;
71-234-72- -54
797
