[81] Mar. 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
important to our balance of payments.
Two, it is important to maintaining the
high standard of living that we enjoy in
this country, to make it possible not only
for us to have the best fed people in the
world but also to be able to export much
abroad and to use, where we find it feasi-
ble, to use our farm products very effec-
tively in terms of our foreign policy.
And so leaving that note, and now
moving to the broader subject, here we
see the farmer, highly productive, an
enormous asset to this country; we see
him with problems, with his income not as
high as it should be in terms of his contri-
bution. And here we see also the problem
of where the farmer lives-the cities, the
towns of rural America.
Now let me be quite candid. And I say
this knowing that I am being covered not
only by farm editors and people writing
columns or speaking on radio or television
primarily to farm audiences but with a
pool in this room who will carry these re-
marks to cities as well, because I say the
same thing to the cities that we say on
the farms, and naturally that is as it should
be.
But I think that the important thing
that we have to bear in mind here is that
there has been some criticism of the Ad-
ministration's new initiatives in terms of
revenue sharing, and our other new pro-
grams, on the ground that it shortchanges
the cities in favor of rural America.
I want to meet that criticism head on.
It does not shortchange the cities. As
George Romney, who is the head of the
Department of [Housing and] Urban De-
velopment, will tell you, our new programs
for revenue sharing provide as much for
any city or county as presently is being
provided, and more for most, and that
over all this country it is approximately
over a 20 percent increase.
However, what is novel and what is
new in our approach this year is that for
really the first time we are putting em-
phasis on an area which has really been
too much at the short end of the stick:
the forgotten area of the American econ-
omy, rural America.
Let's look at rural America for a mo-
ment. Again, we look at the facts and the
figures and what do we find? Over half
of the substandard housing in America is
in rural America. Approximately half of
the unemployment and underemployment
is in rural America and approximately
half of those below the poverty level live
in rural America.
And when one tries to set the city
against the county, or the city against
the country, this is of course a self-
defeating operation, because what really
ends up is simply this: that the problems
of rural America today, the problems of
lack of opportunity, the problems of pov-
erty, the problems of underemployment or
unemployment, the problems of substand-
ard housing, the problems of rural Amer-
ica today will become the problems of
urban America tomorrow unless
change the climate in rural America.
And so that brings me to the reason why
in the new revenue sharing proposals, at
my insistence, we put additional funds in
the area of rural problems. Those funds
will be described to you by Mr. Harper 3
and by others who will be briefing you.
I pointed out in my address to the
legislature that the total that will go
specifically for rural development is
Edwin L. Harper, Special Assistant to the
President.
364
