[86] Mar. 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
-Vest the power to shape local man-
power assistance efforts in govern-
ments close to the people they assist.
MANPOWER ASSISTANCE: IN WHOSE
HANDS?
Labor, like other economic resources, is
allocated by the market under our sys-
tem. But as the American economy has
grown increasingly complex and techno-
logical, we have seen that the job market
has imperfections-frictions, lags, slack in
the gears—whose costs in unemployment,
underemployment and inadequate in-
comes must be reduced. A degree of cau-
tious intervention in the market process
over the long term is clearly a human im-
perative and a matter of national inter-
est-as the Congress recognized nine years
ago
this month with a substantial commit-
ment of Federal money and attention
under the Manpower Development and
Training Act of 1962. That Act, and the
Economic Opportunity Act of 1964, cur-
rently include more than a dozen cate-
gorical grant programs in the manpower
field, funded in Fiscal 1971 at $1.5 billion.
While these efforts proceed from the
best of intentions, they are overcentralized,
bureaucratic, remote from the people they
mean to serve, overguidelined, and far less
effective than they might be in helping the
unskilled and the disadvantaged. The rea-
son: by and large, their direction does not
belong in Federal hands.
Designing a manpower program that
can best deliver its intended services starts
with the recognition, one, that the "job
market" is really thousands of interacting
but separate markets spread all over the
economic and geographic map of the
United States, and two, that the "labor
force" is actually 87 million individual
men and women with a wide diversity of
training needs. Under the circumstances
it makes little sense for Washington to
dominate decisions on manpower assist-
ance-not when 50 States and thousands
of local government units, each in touch
with its own territory and close to its own
people, stand ready to apply their know-
how if Washington will only help pay the
bills.
PENALIZING DIVERSITY AND SUBSIDIZING
BUREAUCRACY
I recognize that there are many Federal
purposes for which categorical grants are
still the best available approach. My Spe-
cial Revenue Sharing proposals are tar-
geted specifically at those program areas
in which I believe the case for local deci-
sion is overriding.
Manpower is an area in which the need
to adapt to diverse and changing local
conditions is especially compelling, and
in which the advantages of local control
are correspondingly great.
When nationwide categorical programs
are applied to diverse job markets, some
cities and States may find their needs met
nicely-but many others, inevitably, will
come off second best. They will, in effect,
be penalized for differing from the models
according to which Federal programs are
designed. They find themselves forced into
funding projects of low local priority
ahead of those of higher priorities simply
because Federal program inflexibilities
mean funding the available ones or none
at all. Those who suffer as a result are not
governmental units in the abstract but real
people with bills to pay and families to
feed. The injury is compounded when
380
