Richard Nixon, 1971
Jan. 26 [30]
familiar. In the case of many of them, the
work begun by the Ninety-first Congress
should aid prompt consideration by the
Ninety-second. Each is worthy, and by
moving promptly and favorably on these
matters of unfinished business this Con-
gress will make an auspicious beginning
on what could become a record of splen-
did achievement.
The White House
January 26, 1971
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: On the same day, the White House
released a fact sheet on 40 bills being resub-
mitted to the 92d Congress.
30 Toasts of the President and Prince Juan Carlos
of Spain. January 26, 1971
Your Royal Highnesses and all of our
distinguished guests this evening:
As everybody who has been in this room
before knows, a lot of history has occurred
here. And through the 190 years that the
White House has been here and through
the years that this has been the State
Dining Room, many honored guests have
been received in this room. It is signifi-
cant to note that tonight is the first time
in the long history of this Nation and the
history of this house and of this room that
we honor not only a nation, a nation with
whom we have so many strong bonds and
such great affection, but for the first time
we honor the representative of that
nation, the Royal Family of Spain.
This is the first time, in other words,
that while through the years we have had
heads of government and heads of state
from other nations, that one who will be
the head of state of his nation, and a
member of the Royal Family, is honored
here from Spain.
And on such an occasion, therefore, all
of us here who know Spain, who have had
the opportunity to visit Spain-and that is
virtually everybody in the room-have a
feeling of the history of the moment and
what it means about our past and what
particularly it means about our future, the
future of both of our countries.
We think, for example, of the visit that
His Royal Highness and Princess Sophia
will be making to other States after they
leave Washington. They will go to three
States, three great States, which have such
a background of Spanish culture, Spanish
language, Spanish music, some of which
we heard tonight-to Florida, Texas, and
California.
And we are reminded, as I pointed out
this morning, of the fact that the United
States and all the New World owe so
much to Spain, the great courageous ex-
plorers who found the New World and
who explored it, and that we owe far more
than that in culture and language and
the other areas with which we are familiar.
And all of us who have visited Spain,
too, know that it is a magnificent country
to visit because of the places of historical
interest there, because, also, of the im-
mense and unique warmth and hospitality
which characterizes the Spanish people.
Mrs. Nixon and I, Secretary of State
Rogers and his wife, and a few others here
tonight had one of the great experiences
of the time that we have been here in the
reception that we had in Spain, and we
were there a few months ago, an official
reception. But I can assure you that if an
individual goes to Spain, even as an ordi-
nary citizen or a tourist, as millions do, he
73
