[332] Oct. 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
potential of our Nation until neither race
nor nationality is any longer an obstacle
to full participation in the American
marketplace.
The White House
October 13, 1971
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: On the same day, the White House
released a fact sheet on the message and the
transcript of a news briefing on the minority
business enterprise program by Maurice H.
Stans, Secretary, and John L. Jenkins, Director,
Office of Minority Business Enterprise, Depart-
ment of Commerce; and Sam Wyly, Chairman,
and Berkeley G. Burrell, Vice Chairman, Ad-
visory Council for Minority Enterprise.
333 Remarks at Ceremonies Honoring Billy Graham
in Charlotte, North Carolina.
Mr. Chairman, all of the distinguished
guests who have come from Washington
and other places to this meeting, and
friends of Billy Graham:
1
It is a very great honor for me to be
here, and also a very great challenge.
Charlie Jonas ยน mentioned, as I came into
the room, that I had spoken in this hall
before, and I have, and in thousands, as a
matter of fact, across this Nation, across
the world. I must say, to follow Billy
Graham is the hardest assignment I have
ever had in all those speeches.
I have very much in common with him.
He has mentioned some of those things. I
remember particularly, and I am proud
to mention it here on a visit to North
Carolina, that I, like he, have a North
Carolina background. The 3 years that I
spent in North Carolina, in Durham at
Duke, I well remember; and my law
degree and what I know about the law I
owe to this State and to that great uni-
versity. And I am one of the few lawyers
in the country who is not a candidate to
be appointed to the Supreme Court of the
United States.
But as a result of that experience, also
in the middle of the depression to which
1
ยน Representative Charles Raper Jonas of
North Carolina.
October 15, 1971
Billy Graham has referred, I have friends
that have been lifelong friends in this
State and throughout this Nation, friend-
ships for which I am grateful.
In thinking of what to say on behalf of
the Nation and on behalf of all of you out
here, thousands of you who want to pay
your tribute to Billy Graham, I tried to
put myself in his place, to think of what
he would want me to say. And I thought
that, first he would think of the fact that
he is being honored today; but he knows
that without many others he could not
have stood here as he did, he could not
be recognized as he was, as the evangelist
who has been heard by more people in
more parts of the world than any in the
history of the world.
This is the season in which we are all
interested in sports. A great quarterback
will be the hero after a game on a Satur-
day or a Sunday, but he will be the first to
say, "Had it not been for that blocking
that I had, I would have been sacked a
few times, and we would have lost," or "If
it had not been for the defense, or a
couple of great pass receivers, we would
not have won." In other words, the quar-
terback who is written up as the hero will
say, "The team made it possible."
In the World Series, a pitcher who shuts
1046
