[75] Feb. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
South-West Africa, we have adopted a
policy of discouraging American invest-
ment in that territory. We have sought to
provide assistance and encouragement to
Botswana, Lesotho, and Swaziland in their
efforts to prove the viability of multi-
racial societies in the heart of southern
Africa.
These measures define our policy to-
ward the problems of southern Africa. We
intend to continue these efforts, and to
do what we can to encourage the white
regimes to adopt more generous and more
realistic policies toward the needs and
aspirations of their black citizens.
However, just as we will not condone
the violence to human dignity implicit in
apartheid, we cannot associate ourselves
with those who call for a violent solution
to these problems.
We are convinced that the use of vio-
lence holds no promise as the solution to
the problems of southern Africa. Neither
the military nor the economic strength is
available to force change on the white
minority regimes. Violence would harden
the resistance of the white minorities to
evolutionary change. Resort to force
would freeze the prejudice and fear which
lie at the heart of the problem. Finally,
violence would certainly hurt most the
very people it would purport to serve.
The interests of the white regimes
themselves surely dictate change. The
United States believes that the outside
world can and should use its contacts with
southern Africa to promote and speed
that change. We do not, therefore, believe
the isolation of the white regimes serves
African interests, or our own, or that of
ultimate justice. A combination of con-
tact and moral pressure serves all three.
PROGRESS
I have dwelt at length on the problems
of Africa because it is to them that our
policies are of necessity addressed. But
it is necessary also to recognize the prog-
ress which is taking place.
The return of peace to Nigeria was the
paramount African event of 1970. That
event was all the more welcome to us, for
the American zeal to help reduce the
anguishing human cost of that conflict
led to some misunderstanding and strain
in our relations with the Nigerian Govern-
ment. The United States views with ad-
miration the humane and statesmanlike
policy of reconciliation which Nigeria has
adopted. We ourselves know the suffering
and bitterness which a civil war entails.
Our country emerged stronger and more
united. Nigeria, too, has emerged from
the challenge stronger and united, and
ready to assume the significant role in
Africa which her size, her resources, and
her sixty million people dictate. That is a
development of the highest significance
for the future stability and well-being of
Africa. We welcome it.
I should also mention the striking prog-
ress which has been made in the Demo-
cratic Republic of the Congo. Five years
of peace have transformed that country
from perhaps the most tortured of African
states to one of the most stable. This de-
velopment vindicates the faith in a united
Congo which the United States displayed
in darker days. President Mobutu's visit to
Washington in August served to recall the
support we extended to the Congo at that
time, and to reaffirm the strong friendship
between our two countries which has
resulted.
284
