[75] Feb. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
confirmed the basic soundness of our
approach.
We have set a new direction. We are on
course.
PART I: THE NIXON DOCTRINE
"It is not my belief that the way to
peace is by giving up our friends or letting
down our allies. On the contrary, our aim
is to place America's international com-
mitments on a sustainable, long-term
basis, to encourage local and regional in-
itiatives, to foster national independence
and self-sufficiency, and by so doing to
strengthen the total fabric of peace."
Address to the United Nations
General Assembly
September 18, 1969
This Administration began with the
conviction that a global structure of peace
requires a strong but redefined American
role. In other countries there was growing
strength and autonomy. In our own there
was nascent isolationism in reaction to
overextension. In the light of these
changed conditions, we could not con-
tinue on the old path.
We need to replace the impulses of the
previous era: both our instinct that we
knew what was best for others and their
temptation to lean on our prescriptions.
We need to head off possible overreactions
in the new era: a feeling on our part that
we need not help others, and a conclusion
on their part that they cannot count on
America at all. We need to strengthen re-
lations with allies and friends, and to
evoke their commitment to their own fu-
ture and to the international system.
Perception of the growing imbalance
between the scope of America's role and
the potential of America's partners thus
prompted the Nixon Doctrine. It is the
key to understanding what we have done
during the past two years, why we have
done it, and where we are going.
The Doctrine seeks to reflect these
realities:
-that a major American role remains.
indispensable.
-that other nations can and should as-
sume greater responsibilities, for their
sake as well as ours.
-that the change in the strategic re-
lationship calls for new doctrines.
—that the emerging polycentrism of the
Communist world presents different
challenges and new opportunities.
TOWARD NEW FORMS OF PARTNERSHIP
The tangible expression of the new
partnership is in greater material con-
tributions by other countries. But we must
first consider its primary purpose-to help
make a peace that belongs to all.
For this venture we will look to others
for a greater share in the definition of
policy as well as in bearing the costs of
programs. This psychological reorienta-
tion is more fundamental than the mate-
rial redistribution; when countries feel
responsible for the formulation of plans.
they are more apt to furnish the assets.
needed to make them work.
For America this could be the most
critical aspect of the Doctrine. To con-
tinue our predominant contribution might
not have been beyond our physical re-
sources-though our own domestic prob-
lems summoned them. But it certainly
would have exceeded our psychological
resources. For no nation has the wisdom,
and the understanding, and the energy
required to act wisely on all problems, at
all times, in every part of the world. And
it asks too much of a people to under-
222
