[52] Feb. 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
stand, is not that old-but to have it in
this room, the East Room, which is really
the room which I would say would be
known as the Washington Room, if we
were to pick a man's name for it, and to
have this from Valley Forge, is indeed
a very great honor.
I again want to say we thank you for
what you have done and what you are
going to do. It is a good work. It is for
the best interests of America and I want
to be just as helpful as I can, in an honor-
ary or any other way.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:37 p.m. in
the East Room at the White House to mem-
bers of the Foundation's "Committee of One
Thousand."
The gavel and sounding board, made from
an oak beam taken from beneath the floor
of the camp hospital at Valley Forge where
Colonials were treated during the winter en-
campment of 1777 and 1778, was inscribed:
"The President of the United States, Richard
Milhous Nixon, installed as Honorary Chair-
man, Freedoms Foundation at Valley Forge,
February 9, 1971."
Mr. Callaway's remarks are printed in the
Weekly Compilation of Presidential Docu-
ments (vol. 7, p. 207).
53 Remarks to the National Industrial Pollution Control
Council and Subcouncils. February 10, 1971
I WANT to welcome all of you to the
White House and particularly to the State
Dining Room.
And I understand that the first order of
business after we have just watched two
TWA planes--only commercial of the
day [laughter-take off, the first order
of business will be the Secretary of Com-
merce. I understand he has a presenta-
tion to make. So we will put him on right
now.
Mr. Secretary.
[At this point, Secretary Maurice H. Stans
presented to the President a series of reports
and recommendations by the Council and
Subcouncils. The President then resumed
speaking.]
Thank you.
Mr. Secretary and gentlemen, as you
know, we have just witnessed outside the
White House an example of what industry
is doing in cooperation with all of the
goals that we have set forth in our envi-
ronmental message, what industry is do-
ing on the pollution problem.
I learned in talking to Charley Tilling-
hast of TWA that the cost to TWA to
change their whole fleet to the new kind
of device which will reduce the amount of
pollution caused by the expenditure of jet
fuel as the plane takes off from airports
will be approximately $2 million.
He also pointed out, incidentally, that
the pilot or the captain of the pollution-
free plane came from Smoke Rise, New
Jersey.
Now, I make this point for this reason:
I want to speak quite candidly to the
industrial leaders of this Nation who have
been working, as the Secretary has indi-
cated, so diligently in this cause.
I do not see the problem of cleaning
up the environment as being one of the
people versus business, of Government
versus business. I am not among those
who believe that the United States would
be just a wonderful place in which to
live if we could just get rid of all of this
industrial progress that has made us the
richest and strongest nation in the world.
146
