[8] Jan. 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
economy and improve efficiency in the
District Government, such as allowing
long-term leasing and allowing the use of
HEW standards for milk inspection.
These measures are important if the Dis-
trict is to improve its effectiveness and
keep costs within available resources.
In my April 28, 1969, message on the
District of Columbia, I said that it was my
aim to increase the responsibility and effi-
ciency of the Government of the District
of Columbia. The steps taken in this bill
are part of this effort, which I am hope-
ful will also be carried forward by the
recently established Commission on the
Organization of the Government of the
District of Columbia.
It is unfortunate that actions on this
bill came too late to allow appropriation
action by the 91st Congress on the funds
requested for the Washington Technical
Institute and the Federal City College. In
light of the increased authorization pro-
vided in this bill, I am confident that the
new Congress will act early in the next
session to provide the appropriations nec-
essary to expand the capacities of these
important institutions. Such action will
provide needed educational opportunity
for the youth of the District and prove a
sound investment in the future.
NOTE: The statement was released at San
Clemente, Calif.
As enacted, the bill (H.R. 19885), approved
January 5, 1971, is Public Law 91-650 (84
Stat. 1930).
9 Statement About the Special Foreign Assistance
Act of 1971. January 6, 1971
I HEARTILY welcome the prompt and
decisive action of the Congress in passing
H.R. 19911. The additional foreign assist-
ance funds which I requested only a little
over a month ago are vital to the security
of the United States and to the success of
our foreign policy. They are critical to
the success of the Nixon Doctrine and to
our efforts to achieve a peaceful solution
in the Middle East.
The funds made available by this bill
represent major support by the United
States for our friends and allies who are
assuming greater responsibility in the
building of the peaceful and stable world
we all seek in the 1970's. They enable us
to provide the assistance required by
nations which, with our encouragement,
are assuming a greater burden for their
own defense, and thereby enabling us to
reduce our direct overseas involvement.
I am particularly pleased by the con-
sultation and accommodation between
Congress and the Administration demon-
strated in the legislative history of this
bill. America's world leadership depends
upon our being able to put aside partisan
differences when the national interest is
at stake and to band together to demon-
strate the unity of purpose so vital to the
success of our foreign policy. We have
done so on this legislation.
NOTE: The statement was released at San
Clemente, Calif.
As enacted, H.R. 19911, approved Janu-
ary 5, 1971, is Public Law 91-652 (84 Stat.
1942).
26
