[292] Sept. 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
the nuclear tests in Alaska?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Kilpatrick
[Carroll Kilpatrick, Washington Post], we
are considering all of the factors involved,
including the environmental factors. And
I will be reaching a decision, I would say,
within the near future. But that is a matter
which has been discussed in this office on
several occasions.
I am waiting for all of the evidence to
come in and then I will make the decision.
We will announce it, of course, at an
appropriate time.
SOUTH VIETNAMESE ELECTIONS
[6.] Q. Mr. President, might the
changed political picture in South Viet-
nam, specifically a one-man race for the
Presidency there, have any effect on your
future plans as far as the level of United
States troops and United States activity
in that region?
THE PRESIDENT. As far as our plans
for ending the American involvement in
Vietnam are concerned, we have to keep
in mind our major goal, which is to bring
the American involvement to an end in a
way that will leave South Vietnam in a
position to defend itself from a Com-
munist takeover.
Now as far as President Thieu's politi-
cal situation is concerned, I think it is
well to put that subject in perspective.
We would have preferred to have had
a contested election in South Vietnam.
We, however, cannot get people to run
when they do not want to run.
It should be pointed out, however, that
in fairness to the democratic process and
how it is working in South Vietnam, the
Congressional elections, the elections for
the National Assembly should not be over-
looked. Eighty percent of the people of
South Vietnam voted as compared with,
incidentally, 60 percent who voted in our
Congressional elections in 1970, and one-
third of those who were elected opposed
President Thieu, and some of those who
were elected to the National Assembly
were those that charged that they could
not be elected before the election because
the election would be rigged.
Now President Thieu has made the
election in October for the Presidency a
vote of confidence. There are criticisms to
the effect that this vote of confidence will
not be an accurate one, but he has invited
foreign observers in to see it and to observe
it.
My view is that the United States
should continue to keep its eye on the
main objective and that is to end the
American involvement just as soon as
that is consistent with our overall goals,
which is a South Vietnam able to defend
itself against a Communist takeover and
which, of course, includes, from our stand-
point, our primary interest in maintain-
ing the release of our POW's.
I note one thing, incidentally, on your
question, Mr. Jarriel [Tom Jarriel, ABC
News], that is presently apparently before
the Senate or a Senate committee, and
that is the recommendation or a resolu-
tion to the effect that the United States
should cut off aid to South Vietnam unless
President Thieu does have a contested
election.
Now let's just look at what that means
in terms of worldwide policy. We presently
provide military and/or economic aid to
91 countries in the world. I checked these
various countries as far as their heads of
government are concerned, and in only
30 of those countries do they have leaders
who are there as a result of a contested
election by any standards that we would
952
