Richard Nixon, 1971
May 26 [183]
the Nation, we must also bear in mind
that the values the artist represents are
essential if our Nation's growth is to be
balanced and truly to represent quantity
with quality.
I know that a great deal of your dis-
cussion here these past 3 days has been
directed toward the question of how agen-
cies of government, other than this En-
dowment, can bring the arts more
prominently into their own thinking, plan-
ning and programing. That question, of
course, is a very important one, and as
a result, I am sending a memorandum
today to the heads of the various depart-
ments of the government and agencies of
the executive branch-all of them-ask-
ing them to look at the new ways in which
their agencies can more vigorously assist
the arts and artists and also, perhaps more
important, how the arts and artists can
be of additional help to the agencies and
their programs.
Whatever my influence with the Con-
gress may be, at least for the time being
I still have influence with the agencies of
government where I have appointed
them.
Your discussions, the book you pro-
duced for this convention, "Washington
and the Arts," will provide a very helpful
beginning, and we will see that that is
well distributed among the various agency
heads.
I hope and believe that as we follow
through we can write a new chapter in
developing partnership to the lasting
benefit of the arts and artists, the Gov-
ernment, and most important, the people
of America.
Before concluding, I would like to share
with you a personal experience, if I could,
which relates to this problem of priori-
ties; what it means.
Of course, in this particular field, I can-
not pretend to be an expert. Len Gar-
ment, I know, has already exposed the
fact that in addition to the piano, I have
at one time played the violin. It didn't
have any strings, but I played it.
But be that as it may, I do recall my
first
year in college in California. I went
to a very small college—we had only 300
students at that time-Whittier College.
It was 1931, the beginning and the depths
of the depression.
And as a college freshman, I recall a
convocation that we had in which the
president of the college, who was a man
enormously interested in the arts, whether
in music or painting or whatever the field
was, brought to us a very outstanding lady.
I do not remember who she was or
where she came from. As a matter of fact,
she must have come without an hono-
rarium, because we couldn't afford hono-
rariums at Whittier College in those days.
So for her it was a labor of love, and cer-
tainly nothing else was involved.
But I remember of all the many con-
vocations I sat through at Whittier Col-
lege in 4 years—and we were required to
go to convocations every week at Whittier
College in those days-but I remember of
all those convocations, this one particu-
larly stood out in my mind.
She talked about the arts and her inter-
est. She had paintings that she displayed.
And we were interested in that. Most of
us knew very little about it, because we
had no courses in art of that type, por-
traits or painting, in any respect at Whit-
tier in those days.
But then she told a story which got the
lesson through. Remember the time
Leonard Garment, Special Consultant to
the President.
679
