Richard Nixon, 1971
Mar. 22 [110]
back a little sooner is completely thrown
in.
It also has the effect, once we set the
deadline, of completely continuing this
operation out there on the enemy's
terms.
They know exactly what we are going
to do, and then they can proceed to make
their plans on that assumption.
Now, what are we doing-let me say I
know when we are going to get out. We
have a plan. It is being implemented. I
will make another announcement on that
plan in April. I won't go into it tonight,
because it would not be proper to do so
until we have all the facts and figures.
But it will be at least at the level that we
have been going through withdrawals up
to this point.
But as far as a deadline is concerned,
while the next announcement, I am sure,
will give some indication as to the end of
the tunnel, we are not going to tell the
enemy now that there is no need for them
to negotiate, that there is nothing to be
gained by their coming to the confer-
ence table and negotiating with regard
to an exchange of prisoners, possibly
with regard to an all-Indochina peace
conference.
You see, these are high stakes. And as
long as there is a chance on those stakes
for us to have a negotiation, we have got
to continue to play the game out.
POSSIBILITY OF FUTURE CONFLICTS
[9.] MR. SMITH. Mr. President, let me
ask you about something in connection
with Vietnam you said to Mr. Sulzber-
ger.ยน You said you expected that this
ยนC. L. Sulzberger, foreign affairs columnist
for the New York Times, who interviewed the
President on March 8, 1971.
would probably be our last war.
Now, in this century, I don't think we
have started a single war. Wars have been
started by second powers. They have in-
volved our vital interests, and then we
have had to respond.
Now, what has changed to prevent sec-
ond powers from starting future conflicts
that might involve our national interests?
THE PRESIDENT. You are absolutely
right with regard to how wars have come
ers have started them. The United States
was drawn into World War I. It was
drawn into World War II. We were
drawn into World War II. We were
drawn into Korea because the North Ko-
reans attacked, and then we came in to
help save South Korea, and so it was in
Vietnam. North Vietnam attacked South
Vietnam; no South Vietnamese attacked
North Vietnam, as you are aware.
However, when I make the Statement
with regard to this possibly being the last
war, I also, as you will note in my inter-
view with Mr. Sulzberger, very strongly
indicated the necessity for the United
States to play its destined role because
of our power, economically and other-
wise, as the peacekeeping nation, the ma-
jor peacekeeping nation in the free world.
Now, if the United States doesn't play
that role, there will be another war. I
mean by that, for example, for one thing,
that how we end the war in Vietnam will
have a great effect on whether there will
be another war like that.
If the war in Vietnam is ended in a way
that it is considered to be an American
defeat or a reward for those who engage
in aggression, or an encouragement to the
hard-liners in the Communist world, then
they will do it again.
And, if they hit somebody that is an ally
of the United States, like the Philippines
455
