Richard Nixon, 1971
July 6 [222]
I address myself at this point to this
particular question for a reason that I
think is quite relevant in view of the
announcement that I made on July 3. I
said then that the United States was en-
tering its Bicentennial Era, because 5 years
from July 4 of this year we will celebrate
the 200th anniversary of the United States
of America.
We wonder what kind of a nation we
are going to be then. Well, I will flatly
predict that 5 years from now we will still
be the richest nation in the world. If we
want to be-and this will depend upon
the American people--and need to be,
we will still be the strongest nation in the
world. But the critical question is whether
the United States will be a healthy na-
tion, a healthy nation not simply with a
healthy government and a healthy econ-
omy and a healthy environment and a
healthy physical system insofar as we per-
sonally are concerned, but healthy in
terms of its moral strength.
On that, there is a question. That ques-
tion is raised often in your editorial
columns, as I have noted because I read
many of them. It should be raised. But I
would only suggest that part of the rea-
son for raising it is that again we tend to
allow the problems of the moment to
obscure our vision of the future. We tend
to allow our faults-and we have many-
to obscure the many virtues of our society.
I will not list them. Let us simply say
this world leadership-oh, I know all the
criticisms: the United States can't be
trusted with power; the United States
should recede from the world scene and
take care of its own problems and leave
world leadership to somebody else, be-
cause we engage in immorality in the
conduct of our foreign policy. Let's take a
look.
We have been in four wars in this cen-
tury, and four times young Americans
have gone abroad. We have done so with-
out any idea of conquest or domination.
We have lost hundreds of thousands of
lives and we have not gotten a thing out of
any of it. And we have helped each of our
enemies, after each of the wars, get on
his feet again.
Oh, we have made our mistakes. We
make them now, for example, as we have
made them in previous wars. But let me
say this: Think for a moment. What
other nation in the world would you like
to have in the position of preeminent
power? What other nation in the world
that has what it takes would have the
attitude that the United States has, as
far as its foreign policy is concerned?
Here is a nation that did not seek the
preeminent world position. It came to us
because of what had happened in World
War II. But here is a nation that has
helped its former enemies, that is generous
now to those that might be its opponents,
a nation that, it seems to me, is one that
the world is very fortunate, in a way, to
have in a position of world leadership.
In terms of our domestic policies, I
think we can truly say we have some prob-
lems. They are quite significant, and we
like to look at those problems; not only
look at them but we must work on them,
and constantly see that America is re-
vitalized, reinvigorated.
But as we look at those problems, the
enormous strengths of this country can
only be appreciated once you have seen
other countries, great as they are, much as
they have to offer, and come back and
see what we have in America. I am not
speaking of wealth, but I am speaking of
freedom. I am speaking of opportunity. I
am speaking of concern-concern that
811
