[123] Mar. 31
Public Papers of the Presidents
reaffirm my support of proposals made by
Department officials in this spirit, espe-
cially those that strengthen the employ-
ment and work incentive provisions of
H.R. 1.
I believe it is incumbent upon the Fed-
eral government to make the link between
employment and basic income support as
strong as possible. Unlike proposals for
a "guaranteed annual income" which
others have advocated, my welfare reform
program has always included strong work
incentives and requirements. I emphati-
cally believe that those recipients who can
become self-supporting should be pro-
vided both the incentive and the means
to work their way to independence. At
the same time, we must be certain that
the responsibility for effecting this transi-
tion from support to self-sufficiency is
clearly fixed and that the necessary re-
sources are provided. I believe that H.R.
I, strengthened in the ways suggested
below, will meet this charge.
1. Public service employment. The Ad-
ministration has proposed public service
employment for recipients for whom no
other work or training is available. In the
first year, 200,000 jobs would be provided
at a net cost of $495 million. These would
not be dead-end jobs; rather, they would
be administered in a way to facilitate
movement into competitive and perma-
nent employment with significant ad-
vancement potential.
2. Fixing responsibility for the "work-
ing poor" and those with employment
potential. Administration of these groups
by the Department of Labor would estab-
lish clear accountability for training, em-
ployment and provide movement from the
rolls of Family Assistance recipients who
are "working poor" or are found to have
employment potential. Those who are
presently unemployed would also get
appropriate development services (for ex-
ample, job counseling, referral, training,
day care for their children). Those who
cannot work would receive services more
suited to their particular needs. Initially,
the Administration proposed mandatory
registration of these groups with man-
power agencies. The outlines of our new
proposal being considered by your Com-
mittee would go even further:
•
•
The working poor (families headed
by an individual presently working,
but at wages below the poverty level)
would be distinguished from the
traditional welfare population. In the
same way, those with employment
potential but presently unemployed,
would receive similar special atten-
tion. Manpower training and up-
grading programs could then be
focused on these groups and carefully
tailored to their needs.
The fact that training and employ-
ment assistance will be provided by
the manpower agencies of govern-
ment will serve as positive steps to
move individuals into the world of
work.
3. Increased penalty for refusal to regis-
ter for or accept work or training. The
Administration has proposed an increase
in the penalty for those who refuse ap-
propriate work or training. This provision
stipulates a reduction of benefits equiv-
alent to the full payment for an adult
family member who refuses work or train-
ing opportunities. We have also recom-
mended the reduction of any State sup-
plementation for such refusal.
4. Strengthened anti-fraud provisions.
The Administration also believes it is
essential to have a strong base for the
detection and prosecution of persons pur-
496
