Richard Nixon, 1971
Aug. 18 [270]
will build a world of peace, a world in
which we can have peaceful competition.
What does this require of each of us?
It requires a sense of destiny about
America. It requires a renewal of the
competitive spirit of this country. It re-
quires that each of us give more of our-
selves in whatever job that we have,
whatever calling we have, to do our best,
not just enough to get by. And in doing
that we will have a realization and a satis-
faction for ourselves that we would never
have by having America, at this time,
resigning itself to be second or third or
fourth, 10, 15, or 25 years from now.
I am rather sure that if Abraham
Lincoln were standing again in this place,
as he stood here 110 years ago, he would
perhaps say some of the things I have
270
tried to say. I am sure that he would say,
as I will now say, that we can, at this point
in our history, nobly save or meanly lose
man's last, best hope on earth.
I am confident that from the heartland
of America will come the spirit that
America needs that will say to the whole
world, "We shall nobly save man's last,
best hope on earth."
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:17 p.m. in
the Old Capitol Building.
As enacted, the bill (H.R. 9798) is Public
Law 92-127 (85 Stat. 347).
On the same day, the White House released
an announcement of the bill signing and a
fact sheet detailing the history of the Lincoln
home, plans for its restoration, and places of
historic interest located nearby.
Remarks at the Illinois State Fair in
Springfield. August 18, 1971
GOVERNOR and Mrs. Ogilvie and Julie
and I want to express our appreciation
to all of you who have welcomed us so
warmly-and I am not speaking of the
weather-but welcomed us so warmly at
the Illinois State Fair.
I have sort of been reminiscing a bit of
the times I have been to this fair before.
The first time, Governor, was in 1952. At
that time I was a candidate for Vice Pres-
ident, and I remember speaking in the
fairground. But I have never had the
chance before to drive through the fair-
ground to see the exhibits. I must say, I
saw more people than I saw exhibits, but
it was really a great experience.
I understand and incidentally, I
don't know whether I am correct-but
they tell me this is the biggest State fair
in America. I am going to be in Ohio in
a few days. Can I say that there, too?
I would like to just say something par-
ticularly, if I could, to the Future Farm-
ers, the 4-H, and all of the young people
who are here. You are in the great occu-
pation of farming or agriculture. I am
sure that these days you rather wonder
whether that is an occupation in America
that is here to stay; you rather wonder
whether it is one that really matters.
I know that if you have been listening
to television and reading newspapers, or
even in the classrooms, you hear about
the fact that we have less farmers than
we have had in previous years, although
we produce more, and that maybe agri-
culture isn't as important now as it once
was.
Let me
tell
you something: I have had
a very great privilege in my public life as a
901
