Richard Nixon, 1971
Mar. 4 [86]
tional Health Agencies, and the Inter-
national Service Agencies. The changes
announced today should rekindle that
spirit of voluntarism and bring the Federal
Government closer to these organizations
and to the local communities which the
government serves.
Voluntarism in America will flourish
only to the extent that as individual citi-
zens we support the organizations that
make voluntary action a reality. I urge
Federal employees to continue to offer
their skills to voluntary organizations, as-
sisting not only in their fund-raising efforts
but also in the delivery of their services. I
also ask that each of you, as the head of a
department or agency, provide your per-
sonal leadership in assuring the success of
this new Combined Federal Campaign
program.
RICHARD NIXON
86 Special Message to the Congress on Special Revenue
Sharing for Manpower. March 4, 1971
To the Congress of the United States:
Like the 1770s, which produced an
American Revolution, the 1970s can be a
decade of revolutionary change. We have
an opportunity to build on the strengths of
the federal system, and by so doing to
forge a strong new partnership in which
each level of government does what it
does best, and in which each function of
government is lodged at that level at
which it can best be performed.
One of the keys to this reform is Reve-
nue Sharing-General and Special, $16
billion in all.
Four weeks ago I asked the Congress to
enact a $5 billion General Revenue Shar-
ing program. It was essentially a proposal
to take some of the tax dollars the Federal
Government raises and use them as a
transfusion for our hard-pressed States,
counties and cities-to be spent as the
people in each jurisdiction agree with their
own elected officials makes the best sense.
Two days ago in my message on Law
Enforcement Assistance, I presented to the
Congress the first of six proposals that will
account for a total of $11 billion in Spe-
cial Revenue Sharing programs. Unlike
General Revenue Sharing, which is new
money without project restrictions, Spe-
cial Revenue Sharing consists of $10 bil-
lion now going into present Federal grant
programs, plus $1 billion in new funds,
rescued from a thicket of narrow cate-
gories and earmarked for spending in six
broad areas of national concern.
Today I am proposing legislation in the
second major area of Special Revenue
Sharing-Manpower. The Manpower
Revenue Sharing Act of 1971 would:
-Provide $2 billion during the first full
year of its operation-$4 for every $3
now being spent to help move
men and women into productive
employment.
-Unify into one the many programs
under which Federal manpower
money is now channeled to State and
local governments.
-Free city, county, and State budgets
from matching and maintenance-of-
effort encumbrances, and officials of
those governments from intricate ad-
ministrative procedures.
379
