[6] Jan. 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
in any community that has a policy which
is discriminatory insofar as fair housing
is concerned. But now the law does not
now require or, in my opinion, allow the
Federal Government to have forced inte-
gration of suburbs. Now there is argu-
ment on this point.
I realize, for example-and I do listen
to some of your commentaries and I read
them all; I know Mr. Chancellor has very
strong feelings on this--but I believe that
that is the best course. We are going to
carry out the law. We are going to open
up opportunities for all Americans to
move into housing, any housing that they
are able to afford.
But, on the other hand, for the Federal
Government to go further than the law, to
force integration in the suburbs, I think
is unrealistic. I think it will be counter-
productive and not in the interest of
better race relations.
COMMUNISM AND CHILE
[11.] MR. SEVAREID. Mr. President, if
we could turn to some foreign problems
for a while, for many years the leaders of
your party held the Democratic adminis-
trations to blame for the loss to Com-
munism of East Europe and of China. Do
you feel that what has happened in Chile 3
now in any way bears upon your
responsibility?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, what hap-
pened in Chile is not something that we
welcomed, although, Mr. Sevareid, as you
note, we were very careful to point out
that that was the decision of the people of
Chile, and that therefore we accepted that
decision and that our programs with
President Salvador Allende Gossens, elected
with the support of a coalition of several leftist
groups, took office on November 3, 1970.
Chile we still recognize the government,
we still have our People-to-People pro-
gram, we still have our Peace Corps
programs those programs would con-
tinue as long as Chile's foreign policy was
not antagonistic to our interests.
Now, as far as what happened in Chile
is concerned, we can only say that for the
United States to have intervened-inter-
vened in a free election and to have
turned it around, I think, would have had
repercussions all over Latin America that
would have been far worse than what has
happened in Chile.
I would say, finally, just as I told the
Chilean Ambassador, when he paid his
farewell call on me, I told him to tell the
new President that as far as the United
States was concerned that we recognized
the right of any country to have internal
policies and an internal government dif-
ferent from what we might approve of.
What we were interested in was their
policy toward us in the foreign policy field.
So, I haven't given up on Chile or on
the Chilean people, and we are going to
keep our contact with them.
VIETNAM
[12.] MR. CHANCELLOR. Mr. President,
let me ask a question about Vietnam, as
though nobody was going to ask you
tonight.
THE PRESIDENT. I didn't expect that.
MR. CHANCELLOR. Last month you sent
a number of bombers into North Vietnam
and we were told that they bombed missile
sites and antiaircraft installations because
the North Vietnamese had fired on an
American reconnaissance plane. But then
a few days later, sir, we learned that ap-
parently that opportunity was used to
make very heavy bombing raids on sup-
I 2
