[99] Mar. 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
their families, and for the sake of human
decency.
NOTE: The statement, released at Key Biscayne,
Fla., was read at the Gridiron Club dinner in
Washington, D.C., by Secretary of State
William P. Rogers.
The Gridiron Club is an organization of 50
Washington newspapermen that presents each
year an evening of satire in song.
On March 19, 1971, the President signed
H.J. Res. 16 and Proclamation 4038, designat-
ing March 21-27 as National Week of Concern
for Americans Who Are Prisoners of War or
Missing in Action.
100 Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual
Report of the United States Arms Control and
Disarmament Agency.
To the Congress of the United States:
The report which I transmit to you
covers the activities of the U.S. Arms Con-
trol and Disarmament Agency during the
calendar year 1970. It is noteworthy that
this is the Agency's Tenth Annual Report;
it marks a decade of diligent pursuit of
arms control and disarmament.
I have set as my goal the attainment of
a generation of peace. I believe that arms
control presents both a necessary and a
promising road towards a stable, secure
world in which true peace can exist.
There are many problems to be solved
and the answers will not come easily, but
with determination and perseverance, we
can prevail.
For the first time, a realistic dialogue
is taking place between the Soviet Union
and ourselves about the management of
our strategic relations. The mutuality of
interests which brought us to the table
encourages our hope that the Strategic
Arms Limitation Talks will succeed. I am
heartened by the work which has already
been done, and I am hopeful that the
constructive nature of the exchange will
continue in Phase IV of SALT, which
March 15, 1971
resumes in Vienna in March.
During the past year, another arms con-
trol measure was added to the growing
number which have emerged from inter-
national negotiations. A treaty banning
weapons of mass destruction from the
ocean floor was successfully negotiated,
thus expanding still farther the areas and
environments in which nuclear weapons
are precluded.
These and other efforts in the arms
control field are described in the accom-
panying report. Progress is not always
dramatic, but the direction is sure. My
Administration is dedicated to finding
better, safer, and cheaper alternatives for
insuring our security than the expedient
of competition in weaponry.
The White House
RICHARD NIXON
March 15, 1971
NOTE: The message was released at Key
Biscayne, Fla.
The 72-page report is entitled "Tenth An-
nual Report to Congress, The United States
Arms Control and Disarmament Agency,
January 1, 1970-December 31, 1970."
432
