[134] Apr. 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
the development of marine science policy,
the coordination of Federal programs,
and the effecting of an orderly transition
during the reorganization of Federal
agencies in the marine sciences. As the
Council now completes its work, we can
take pride in the new policies and pro-
grams that fulfill the objectives of the
Marine Resources and Engineering De-
velopment Act. The Council deserves our
gratitude for a job well done.
My budget request for fiscal year 1972
provides $609.1 million for marine sci-
ence, technology and services-an in-
crease of more than $70 million over my
request of a year ago. These funds would
permit NOAA to undertake priority pro-
grams of fundamental importance to the
Nation's marine science interests; they
will permit us to continue the accomplish-
ments of the Sea Grant program; to fur-
ther our participation in the International
Decade of Ocean Exploration; to insure
that necessary marine research and de-
135
velopment is conducted for national se-
curity purposes; and to make certain that
marine research and development, gen-
erally, continue to make productive con-
tributions to our growing use of the sea.
We have embarked on a strong marine
science program for the 1970s. In the
year ahead the Federal Government will
build on these accomplishments. And we
will look to all sectors of the Nation's
marine science community-State and
local governments, industry and the uni-
versities to contribute to the fullest to
the United States' efforts to make better
use of the oceans and to provide world
leadership on the major ocean issues be-
fore the community of nations.
The White House
April 7, 1971
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The report is entitled "Marine Science
Affairs: Annual Report of the President to
the Congress on Marine Resources and En-
gineering Development" (Government Print-
ing Office, 114 pp.).
Address to the Nation on the Situation in
Southeast Asia. April 7, 1971
GOOD EVENING my fellow Americans.
Over the past several weeks you have
heard a number of reports on TV, radio,
and in your newspapers on the situation
in Southeast Asia.
I think the time has come for me as
President and as Commander in Chief
of our Armed Forces to put these reports
in perspective, to lay all the pertinent
facts before you and to let you judge for
yourselves as to the success or failure of
our policy.
I am glad to be able to begin my re-
port tonight by announcing that I have
decided to increase the rate of American
troop withdrawals for the period from
May I to December 1. Before going into
details, I would like to review briefly what
I found when I came into office, the prog-
ress we have made to date in reducing
American forces, and the reason why I
am able to announce a stepped-up with-
drawal without jeopardizing our remain-
ing forces in Vietnam and without en-
dangering our ultimate goal of ending
American involvement in a way which
will increase the chances for a lasting
peace in the Pacific and in the world.
522
