[110] Mar. 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
justifiable discussion, as to whether this is
a victory or a defeat. And I know that
that is a question, perhaps, that you would
raise; certainly, our viewers would raise it.
Let me hit it very directly. This is not
the kind of an operation that you can
really describe in the traditional terms of
victory or defeat, because its purpose was
not to conquer territory. Its purpose was
not to destroy an army. Its purpose was
simply to disrupt supply lines. Its purpose,
in other words, was not to conquer or
occupy a part of Laos; its purpose was to
defend South Vietnam.
Now, let's measure this operation in
terms of accomplishing that purpose. For
6 weeks the South Vietnamese have dis-
rupted the enemy's supply lines. For 6
weeks they have tied down some of the
enemy's best divisions. For 6 weeks we
have seen, too, that the South Vietnamese
have been able to handle themselves
quite well under very, very difficult
circumstances.
Now, what does this mean for the
future? Well, I think when we judge
whether this operation is going to be la-
beled a success or a failure, we cannot
judge it before it is concluded, and we can-
not judge it even after it is concluded. We
can only see it in perspective because its
goals were long range-long range being,
first, to insure the continuation of the
American withdrawal; second, to reduce
the risk to the remaining Americans as we
withdraw; and, third, to insure the ability
of the South Vietnamese to defend them-
selves after we have left. Those were the
three goals of this operation.
How do we know whether or not those
goals will be achieved? Well, I will say
this, my interim assessment based on Gen-
eral Abrams' advice and the advice that
get from all people in the field is this:
I
As far as our withdrawal is concerned, it
is assured. The next withdrawal an-
nouncement will be made in April. It will
be at least at the number that I have been
withdrawing over the past few months;
and, second, as far as the danger to the
American forces remaining, particularly
in the northern part of South Vietnam—
there are 100,000 there, as you know-
that danger has been substantially re-
duced. That operation has already accom-
plished that much.
Third, as far as the ARVN is concerned,
and here I come back to an expert, Gen-
eral Abrams, who tells it like it is and says
it like it is, says that some of their units
did not do so well but 18 out of 22 bat-
talions conducted themselves with high
morale, with great confidence, and they
are able to defend themselves man for man
against the North Vietnamese.
And so that I would say insofar as
achieving our goals of assuring American
withdrawal, reducing the threat to the
remainder of our forces, and, finally, our
goal of seeing to it that the ARVN de-
velops the capability to defend itself, that
the operation in Laos at this interim pe-
riod has made considerable progress in
achieving those goals.
Now, having said that, Mr. Smith, I
don't want to leave the impression that the
pictures we have been seeing on television
tell basically an inaccurate story. You
know, a picture doesn't lie. I know that
and you know that. That is why television
is such an enormously effective medium.
But while a picture doesn't lie, a picture
may not tell all the truth.
You have been a war correspondent.
You know the man who sees just part of
the war doesn't know what is going on in
other segments.
What have the pictures shown? They
452
