Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 18 [63]
provide an incentive for families to im-
prove their economic position.
The Family Health Insurance Plan
would also go into effect on July 1, 1973.
In its first full year of operation, it would
cost approximately $1.2 billion in addi-
tional Federal funds-assuming that all
eligible families participate. Since States.
would no longer bear any share of this
cost, they would be relieved of a consider-
able burden. In order to encourage States
to use part of these savings to supplement
Federal benefits, the Federal Government
would agree to bear the costs of adminis-
tering a consolidated Federal-State benefit
package. The Federal Government would
also contract with local committees-to
review local practices and to ensure that
adequate care is being provided in ex-
change for Federal payments. Private in-
surers, unions and employers would be
invited to use these same committees to
review the utilization of their benefits if
they wished to do so.
This, then, is how the National Health
Insurance Partnership would work: The
Family Health Insurance Plan would
meet the needs of most welfare families-
though Medicaid would continue for the
aged poor, the blind and the disabled.
The National Health Insurance Stand-
ards Act would help the working popula-
tion. Members of the Armed Forces
and civilian Federal employees would
continue to have their own insurance
programs and our older citizens would
continue to have Medicare.
Our program would also require the
establishment in each State of special
insurance pools which would offer insur-
ance at reasonable group rates to people
who did not qualify for other programs:
the self-employed, for example, and poor
risk individuals who often cannot get
insurance.
I also urge the Congress to take further
steps to improve Medicare. For one thing,
beneficiaries should be allowed to use the
program to join Health Maintenance Or-
ganizations. In addition, we should con-
solidate the financing of Part A of Medi-
care-which pays for hospital care—and
Part B-which pays for outpatient serv-
ices, provided the elderly person himself
pays a monthly fee to qualify for this pro-
tection. I propose that this charge-which
is scheduled to rise to $5.60 per month in
July of this year-be paid for instead by
increasing the Social Security wage base.
Removing this admission cost will save
our older citizens some $1.3 billion an-
nually and will give them greater access
to preventive and ambulatory services.
WHY IS A NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE
PARTNERSHIP BETTER THAN NATION-
ALIZED HEALTH INSURANCE?
I believe that our government and our
people, business and labor, the insurance
industry and the health profession can
work together in a national partnership to
achieve our health objectives. I do not
believe that the achievement of these ob-
jectives requires the nationalization of our
health insurance industry.
To begin with, there simply is no need
to eliminate an entire segment of our pri-
vate economy and at the same time add a
multibillion dollar responsibility to the
Federal budget. Such a step should not be
taken unless all other steps have failed.
More than that, such action would be
dangerous. It would deny people the right
to choose how they will pay for their
health care. It would remove competition
185
