[302] Sept. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
acted as title II of the Internal Security
Act of 1950. Among its provisions, it estab-
lished procedures for the apprehension
and detention, during internal security
emergencies, of individuals likely to en-
gage in acts of espionage or sabotage.
No President has ever attempted to use
the provisions of this act. And while six
detention camps were established and
funded by the Congress, none of them
was ever used for the purposes of this
legislation. In fact, all six camps have been
abandoned or used for other purposes
since 1957.
Nevertheless, the mere continued exist-
ence of these legal provisions has aroused
concern among many Americans that the
act might someday be used to apprehend
and detain citizens who hold unpopular
views. Some have feared that it might
someday be used to permit a situation.
comparable to the detention of Ameri-
cans of Japanese ancestry during World
War II.
I have supported and signed this repeal
in order to put an end to such suspicions.
In taking this action, I want to under-
score this Nation's abiding respect for the
liberty of the individual. Our democracy
is built upon the constitutional guarantee
that every citizen will be afforded due
process of law. There is no place in Amer-
ican life for the kind of anxiety-how-
ever unwarranted—which the Emergency
Detention Act has evidently engendered.
This strong country has no reason to
fear that the normal processes of law-
together with those special emergency
powers which the Constitution grants to
the Chief Executive—will be inadequate
to deal with any situation, no matter how
grave, that may arise in the future. But
we do have a great deal to fear if we begin
to lose faith in our constitutional ideals.
The legislation I have signed today keeps
faith with those ideals.
NOTE: The statement was released in Portland,
Oreg.
As enacted, the bill (H.R. 234) is Public Law
92-128 (85 Stat. 347).
On the same day, the White House released
an announcement of the signing, which con-
tained additional information on the Emer-
gency Detention Act of 1950.
303 Remarks at a Question-and-Answer Session for
Northwest Editors, Publishers, and Broadcast
Executives Attending a Briefing on Domestic Policy
in Portland, Oregon. September 25, 1971
THE WEST COAST DOCK STRIKE
THE PRESIDENT. [1.] Ladies and gentle-
men, I have just finished a meeting with
Mr. Bridges and Mr. Flynn,¹ along with
¹ Harry Bridges, president, International
Longshoremen's and Warehousemen's Union;
and Edmund J. Flynn, president, Pacific Mari-
time Association.
Mr. Counts of the Mediation Service and
the Secretary of Labor and Mr. Shultz.
That meeting was for the purpose of my
bringing to their attention the urgency of
reaching a settlement of the dock strike.
I pointed out what is actually the fact:
that not only is there great interest in that
strike on the west coast, but that, for ex-
ample, when I stopped in Montana today,
986
