Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 25 [75]
of our own responsibility.
The most significant individual country
programs are discussed in the regional
chapters of this annual report. The budget
I presented last month, Secretary Rogers'
forthcoming review of foreign policy de-
velopments, and Secretary Laird's De-
fense Report treat these programs in
detail.
This
year I will present to the Congress
the design of a new International Security
Assistance Program. It will be reorganized
to gear
it more effectively to the purposes
of the Nixon Doctrine:
-It will clearly separate out our secu-
rity assistance from other forms of
assistance to enhance the integrity
and effectiveness of each.
-It will pull together all types of secu-
rity assistance into one coherent pro-
gram. This will make it possible to
coordinate them more efficiently and
to exercise stronger policy guidance
and program direction.
-It will place increasing emphasis on
fostering the self-reliance of those
with whom we are engaged in a co-
operative effort. We will encourage
them, and give them the technical
assistance needed, to determine their
own requirements and to make the
hard decisions on resource allocation
which a meaningful security posture
demands.
This is a program for the 1970's, build-
ing on partnership in the security sphere
and responding to new conditions and the
lessons of recent history. We look to the
day when our friends and allies are free
from threats to their security and able to
concentrate their energies and resources-
and our assistance-on the constructive
tasks of economic and social development.
ARMS CONTROL
"... through negotiation we can move
toward the control of armaments in a
manner that will bring a greater measure
of security than we can obtain from arms
alone."
The President's Message to the
Congress
Transmitting the Ninth Report of
the U.S. Arms Control and
Disarmament Agency
February 26, 1970
The world has no more urgent interest
than reducing the danger of war, and
above all, nuclear war. This creates re-
sponsibilities for all nations, but particu-
larly for the nuclear superpowers.
The control of armaments is not a new
issue in this decade or the postwar period.
Man has long sought to create the mutual
trust and techniques to limit and reduce
arms. The historical record has been
tragic. Arms control has generally foun-
dered because it failed the test of inter-
national crises-nations could not resolve
the very issues that stimulated weapons
competition. At the same time, political
settlements were threatened by arms
rivalry-nations could not define levels
that did not stimulate ever new competi-
tion and thus new antagonisms and
insecurity.
PROGRESS TO DATE
In an age of great technological change
and enormous nuclear power, we face
even larger challenges. This Administra-
tion is dedicated to the limitation and re-
duction of arms. We are proud of our
accomplishments.
319
