Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 25 [75]
tions with the lower income coun-
tries. Assured access for their exports
in the markets of the industrialized
nations is crucial for their successful
development. Indeed, healthy trade
is one of the prime goals of our as-
sistance programs.
-It has important implications for our
relations with Communist countries.
Only they would benefit from a
breakdown of economic cooperation
in the non-Communist world and the
resulting fissures in other fields.
A continued liberal trade policy, in
short, is indispensable to our domestic
economic health and to a successful U.S.
foreign policy. A retreat from our historic
policies would greatly harm those broad
international interests which we can fur-
ther only with others' cooperation.
But there are strong voices in this coun-
try which maintain that liberal trade pol-
icies no longer serve our national interest.
They raise serious questions, though the
challenge to liberal trade policies which
they pose has been greatly strengthened in
recent years by the abnormal increase in
imports caused by our domestic inflation
and the policies and practices of some of
our major trading partners.
To answer these questions within the
framework of a liberal trade policy, to
mesh our trade policy with the world of
the 1970's, we have moved on two fronts.
First, the new Council on International
Economic Policy will take up trade pol-
icy as one of the first priority items on its
agenda. Secondly, the Commission on In-
ternational Trade and Investment,
chaired by Mr. Albert Williams, which I
appointed last year to study the major is-
sues of trade and investment policy, will
shortly report its recommendations to me.
From these two groups should emerge
any new approaches which are needed.
One conclusion is already clear: Our
trade policy problem is not ours alone. It
is truly international in scope. We and
other countries shall all move toward freer
trade together or we shall all retreat to
protectionism together. Restrictionist pol-
icies in one country reinforce restriction-
ist pleas in another and weaken the case
of those who defend freedom of trade.
The U.S., of course, maintains its own
range of trade restrictions, a fact which is
often conveniently forgotten by those who
focus on the barriers maintained by others.
And, to be sure, we must be mindful of
the need to mitigate the disruptive effects
on particular U.S. industries which can
sometimes be caused by sharp increases in
imports.
But we cannot remove our barriers un-
less other countries are willing to elimi-
nate theirs on a truly reciprocal basis. For
those who question our traditional trade
policies can often point to the practices
of some of our major trading partners.
Too often some of these policies have been
set without regard to the interests of other
countries, including the United States.
Some of them have not responded ade-
quately to requests for change from other
countries, including the U.S.
This past year's events have not been
encouraging for those who support a lib-
eral trade policy. In my report a year
ago, I noted three main tasks for trade
policy in the immediate future:
-passage of the trade bill I submitted
in 1969 which would have main-
tained momentum for a liberal trade
policy.
-progress
in the international negotia-
tions on non-tariff barriers and im-
pediments to agricultural trade.
-successful resolution of the inter-
301
