Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 9 [51]
preserve the natural beauty of America
unto all the generations that come after us.
50
NOTE: The President read the statement for
sound and film recording at 3:06 p.m. in the
Family Theater at the White House.
Letter to the President of the Senate and the Speaker of
the House Transmitting a General Revenue
Sharing Bill. February 9, 1971
I AM transmitting herewith a draft bill
to carry out the program of general rev-
enue sharing as explained in my message
to the Congress of February 4, 1971.
This general revenue sharing bill is one
of the twin pillars of the total $16 billion
revenue sharing proposal, representing a
new and dramatic reorientation of our
Federal system by strengthening State and
local governments. It would provide to
those governments $5 billion during its
first full year of operation and would be
based each year on a designated percent-
age of the Nation's taxable personal
income-thus representing new funds
without requiring new taxes or transfers
of funds from existing Federal programs.
No program or project restrictions would
be placed on general revenue sharing
funds.
The details of this proposal have been
developed in close consultation with city,
county, and State officials from across the
country and in discussions with members
51
of Congress. They are explained in the
enclosed description and section-by-sec-
tion analysis of the bill.
As I said in my recent State of the
Union message:
"The time has come for a new part-
nership between the Federal Govern-
ment and the States and localities-a
partnership in which we entrust States
and localities with a larger share of the
Nation's responsibilities and in which
we share our Federal revenues with
them so they can meet those respon-
sibilities."
I strongly urge prompt and favorable
action by the Congress on the General
Revenue Sharing Act of 1971.
Sincerely,
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters ad-
dressed to the Honorable Spiro T. Agnew,
President of the Senate, and the Honorable
Carl Albert, Speaker of the House of
Representatives.
Statement Following Splashdown of Apollo 14.
February 9, 1971
ONCE again earth has welcomed back its
own, and I join people everywhere in re-
joicing both at the safe return of Astro-
nauts Shepard, Mitchell, and Roosa and
at the successful completion of their
mission.
It was on May 5, 1961, that Alan Shep-
ard made America's historic first sub-
orbital flight aboard Freedom 7. Now, a
decade later, he returns from the moon as
commander of the three-man crew of
Apollo 14. The difference between that
143
