Richard Nixon, 1971
June 30 [216]
achieved in stopping the source of supply
of heroin in our worldwide offensive
against dangerous drugs.
Sixty percent of all opium poppy, which
is, of course, the raw material from which
heroin is made, is grown in Turkey.¹ As
a result of negotiations that have been
taking place between the United States
Government and the Turkish Govern-
ment, the Turkish Government has made
a decision that it is announcing today,
which means that the cultivation of opium
poppy in Turkey will completely cease
within one year, by June of 1972.
This very courageous and statesman-
like action deserves the appreciation of
all the people of the world, and the people
of the United States. The credit goes, of
¹ The President was referring to the fact that
experts have estimated that 60 percent or more
of the heroin entering the United States in
recent years has been processed (elsewhere)
from opium poppies grown in Turkey.
course, to the Turkish Prime Minister and
his Government, and a great deal of credit
in our Government goes to the Secretary
of State, who has taken personal leader-
ship in achieving this objective on our
part, and, of course, Ambassador Hand-
ley, who represents us so well in Ankara.
The Secretary of State will brief you on
the details of the announcement. I want
to say, Mr. Ambassador, we are very
proud at this particular time to see that
one of our best friends in the world, a
staunch ally, has moved so effectively
against one of the most dangerous threats
to our young people and other people
by stopping the source of supply of the
opium poppy, as you have done.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:06 a.m. in
the Briefing Room at the White House.
On the same day, the White House released
the transcript of a news briefing on the Turkish
decision by Secretary of State William P.
Rogers and Turkish Ambassador to the United
States Melih Esenbel.
216 Statement About the Turkish Government's Ban
on Cultivation of Opium Poppies. June 30, 1971
IN TODAY'S world, declarations of
statesmanlike intent are not difficult. But
instances of courageous statesmanlike
action are few. Prime Minister Nihat Erim
of Turkey has just combined the two.
Today he declared that the Republic of
Turkey, our friend and staunch ally
within the North Atlantic Treaty Orga-
nization, would abandon a traditional
agricultural practice in order to make a
significant contribution to the well-being
of the world. In the decree of his Govern-
ment, he announced that within one year,
in accordance with the law of his nation,
the opium poppy will no longer be
planted. This farsighted step will provide
an example which we trust will soon be
followed by other nations.
For hundreds of years, tens of thousands
of Turkish families have raised the opium
poppy as a legitimate cash crop and for its
edible oil and seed. Under a United Na-
tions convention, Turkey is one of those
few nations permitted legally to grow
poppy for export. Yet Turkey is one of
the few opium-cultivating countries in
which the use of opium or heroin as an
addictive drug is virtually unknown. Since
the opium farmer has little if any knowl-
edge of his part in the spread of a frighten-
ing international epidemic, a ban on
opium production is a particularly diffi-
71-234--72——-53
789
