Richard Nixon, 1971
Aug. 6 [257]
much we are willing to pay and how soon
we seek success. The effects of such deci-
sions on our domestic economic con-
cerns-jobs, prices, foreign competition—
require explicit and rigorous analyses to
permit us to maintain a healthy economy
while we seek a healthy environment. It
is essential that we have both. It is simplis-
tic to seek ecological perfection at the cost
of bankrupting the very tax-paying enter-
prises which must pay for the social ad-
vances the nation seeks.
We must develop a realistic sense of
what it will cost to achieve our national
environmental goals and choose a specific
level of goal with an understanding of its
costs and benefits. One of the strengths of
the accompanying report, in my view, is
that it sets out-clearly and candidly-
both the costs and the benefits of environ-
mental protection as they are now
understood.
The work of environmental improve-
ment is a task for all our people. It should
unite all elements of our society-of all
political persuasion and all economic
257 Remarks on Arrival at
Hampshire. August 6,
MRS. NIXON and I would like to ex-
press our very warm appreciation to all of
you for this wonderful welcome to New
Hampshire, and to tell you that we have
many pleasant memories of this State
going back over many years. But I think
today, on this magnificent day, to find
these thousands of people at the airport
welcoming us on this visit will perhaps be
the memory that will stay with us longer
than ever. Thank you very much for com-
ing to the airport.
levels in a great common commitment
to a great common goal. The achievement
of that goal will challenge the creativity
of our science and technology, the enter-
prise and adaptability of our industry, the
responsiveness and sense of balance of our
political and legal institutions, and the
resourcefulness and the capacity of this
country to honor those human values
upon which the quality of our national
life must ultimately depend.
The White House
August 6, 1971
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The text of the message is printed in
the report entitled "Environmental Quality:
The Second Annual Report of the Council on
Environmental Quality-August 1971" (Gov-
ernment Printing Office, 360 pp.).
The President signed the transmittal message
in a ceremony in the Oval Office at the White
House.
On the same day, the White House released
the transcript of a news briefing on the report
by Russell E. Train, Chairman, and Dr. Gordon
J. F. MacDonald and Robert Cahn, members.
Council on Environmental Quality.
Manchester, New
1971
Now, could I also say that on this occa-
sion I am so happy to have the Governor
of the State welcome us, and I know you
will want to give him a hand, Governor
Peterson.
We have brought with us the two Sena-
tors from the State of New Hampshire:
my
old friend who came to the Senate the
year that I did, Norris Cotton, Senator
Cotton. Come on,
on, Norris.
Just to keep the bipartisan nature of
this meeting, we also are very happy to
873
