[335] Oct. 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
logical warfare is being converted into a
leading center for cancer research.
This announcement grows out of two
major initiatives which this Administra-
tion has taken over the past 2 years. The
first was my decision in November of 1969
that the United States would no longer
engage in the research, production,
or stockpiling of offensive biological
weapons. The second was the decision,
which I first announced in my State of
the Union Message last January, to launch
a major campaign to conquer cancer.
The decision to terminate biological
weapons has made available for other uses
some of the Nation's most sophisticated
scientific facilities-including the Army's
Biological Defense Research Center at
Fort Detrick, Maryland. Fort Detrick's
nine major laboratory complexes and its
additional smaller laboratories constitute
a major portion of this Nation's contain-
ment facilities for high-hazard micro-
biological research. In addition, the scien-
tists and technicians who have worked
at Fort Detrick represent a pool of talent
and dedication which should also be re-
garded as an important national asset.
It is my strong feeling that these unique
physical and human resources should not
be wasted or dispersed. And this is
especially the case since the particular
facilities and expertise which are found at
Fort Detrick can be converted so effec-
tively and so inexpensively to an intensive
program of cancer research.
It is my hope that this specific conver-
sion will help illustrate the general poten-
tial for using defense related facilities to
meet pressing domestic challenges. Cut-
backs in certain defense needs have pro-
vided a considerable supply of expertise
and equipment which can now be used
for nondefense purposes-if only we take
advantage of them. By mobilizing these
resources, we can help advance important
public goals even as we alleviate the
economic burdens which threaten idled
workers and their families.
The National Cancer Institute has
decided that the best way of utilizing Fort
Detrick is by contracting for its operation
with the private sector. This arrangement
will do much to enhance the flexibility of
its operations. A private contractor, for
example, is usually in a better position to
draw upon a diversified range of public
and private assistance. Such an arrange-
ment has been used most successfully by
the National Aeronautics and Space Ad-
ministration, and by the Atomic Energy
Commission in its work at Brookhaven
and Oak Ridge. It is our hope that the
converted Fort Detrick laboratories will
be fully operational by the early months
of 1972.
The standards of excellence which
have been fostered at Fort Detrick and the
distinguished scientific reputation which
it has achieved give us every reason to
believe that it will play a major role in the
battle against cancer in the years ahead.
That battle must now be waged with all
the determination and effectiveness this
Nation can muster. We lose more people
to cancer each year than died in battle in
all of World War II. If the present rates
of incidence were to continue, some 50
million Americans who are now alive
would someday be victimized by this
disease.
The action of the Congress in approv-
ing my $100 million request for the
cancer cure program was an important
step in the campaign against cancer; so
was the vote of the Senate approving the
Conquest of Cancer Act-which provides
for an independently budgeted program
1052
