Richard Nixon, 1971
Jan. 4 [6]
is so rare to induce a President to be in-
trospective in public that I want to follow
up Mr. Chancellor's opening question and
ask you a question about yourself.
The best analysis of Richard Nixon I
have ever read has been written by Rich-
ard Nixon in his book, the "Six Crises." In
that book you say the easiest period in a
crisis is actually the battle itself. The most
dangerous period is the aftermath.
It is then with all resources spent and
the guard down that you have to watch
out for dulled reactions and faulty judg-
ments, and you cite some cases where that
actually happened to you.
Now the Presidency is the center of
crisis. Do you think you have mastered
that aftermath period now?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, one of the bene-
fits, Mr. Smith, of course, of being in this
position and having gone through so much
before I got here, is that a man tends not
to make as many mistakes. Now that
doesn't mean that he doesn't make some
mistakes. I have made my share, not only
as President but before.
But on the other hand an individual
knows himself so well that he paces him-
self properly, and if he goes through a
period of very great tense activity, he will
watch for the moment afterwards when
in a moment of letdown he might make a
mistake.
I don't mean that I have mastered it
completely because I would be the first
to admit that I am just as human as any-
body else.
WAGE AND PRICE ACTIONS
[5.] MR. SEVAREID. Mr. President, you
described what you want to happen with
your new economy program in the new
year, but what is going to be in it? You
have sounded as though there is going to
be nothing about controls of prices or
wages, or anything of the sort. Is that what
we are to assume from what you have just
said?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Sevareid, I do
not plan to ask for wage controls or price
controls. And I have noted, incidentally,
that all of you, the four commentators
here, have commented upon controls in
one way or another. I know Mr. Smith,
for example, has talked about the possibil-
ity of wage-price guidelines or a wage-
price board, and Dr. Arthur Burns has
hinted that possibly that might be some-
thing we should turn to.
I have considered all those options. I
have decided that none of them at this
time would work. And consequently I feel
that the best course is to proceed, as I have
suggested, with an expansionary budget-
ary policy, but one that will not exceed full
employment revenues, and at the same
time with a monetary policy that will be
adequate to fuel a growing economy. I
believe this will reduce unemployment,
and also I believe it will do so at a time
that inflation will continue to come down.
Now, there is still the wage-price push
and that is what you are referring to.
EMPLOYMENT OUTLOOK
[6.] MR. CHANCELLOR. Mr. Nixon, your
budget is going to be a full employment
budget-I understand that is going to be
true-which will be deficit spending. In
the very good year of 1972, which you have
said you hope will happen, will you get
unemployment down to 4 percent, which
most people call full employment, which
you have just referred to? Will it get down
that far?
THE PRESIDENT. That certainly will be
9
