Richard Nixon, 1971
July 3 [220]
and vital. Everyday is the beginning of a
new phase in this kind of revolution—it is
steady, slow, often silent and almost un-
seen, but it is a revolution that works con-
stantly to improve the quality of life. It
will always work that way if we make it
work.
That is the American way.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, Mr. Chief
Justice.
One of the great purposes of our Con-
stitution was-in its words "to form a
more perfect Union." In the halls of Con-
gress, that process of forming a more per-
fect Union-of improving our laws to
make them more responsive to the chang-
ing needs of our people-has been going
on for nearly 200 years.
Here, to speak to that subject, is the
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
THE SPEAKER. Mr. President, Mr.
Chief Justice, my fellow countrymen:
Amid the dissension that sometimes
amounts to hate in our country today, it
behooves us to remind ourselves that we
are a united nation where every individ-
ual, regardless of race, color, creed, or eco-
nomic status, is under our system clothed
in the dignity that befits the image of his
Maker.
America's first form of government was
a confederation of States, loosely or-
ganized, but with the Articles of Confed-
eration came chaos and black despair.
There could be no liberty without union,
no independence without strength. And
so it was that in May 1787, a group of
earnest men, representatives of the Amer-
ican States, assembled in the city of Phila-
delphia and formulated a constitution
providing for a more perfect Union and
guaranteeing the individual rights of men
to themselves and their posterity.
In forging that Union, they con-
structed a system of government rigid
enough to preserve its basic principles,
flexible enough to be applied to any new
conditions brought in the tide of time,
conservative enough to protect the in-
dividual from the fickle winds of popular
impulse. Forged to protect and to secure
individual liberty, that government is yet
ever responsive to the will of the majority;
for by empowering the people with the
right to elect their representatives, it gives
the people the right to make and enforce
the law and to control and operate their
whole machinery of government. By divid-
ing responsibility between an executive, a
legislature, and an independent judiciary,
that government prevents tyranny over
men.
After nearly 200 years, that govern-
ment still stands tall and rugged. It
emerged from the Civil War unimpaired.
It emerged from the two mightiest wars in
history, grand and glorious. It has survived
depressions and riots and troubles of all
kinds, but it yet stands a monument to
that spirit of forbearance, compromise,
and self-restraint that has kept our Con-
stitution vibrant. That same spirit will
allay the divisions which haunt us today
and will ensure for ourselves and our
posterity not only the blessings of liberty
but a still more perfect Union.
THE PRESIDENT. My fellow Americans:
We share tonight a great moment, the
beginning of the Bicentennial Era. In
this room, so rich in our most precious
heritage, we look back across two cen-
turies with pride and gratitude to all the
brave and dedicated Americans, some
famous but most unknown, who made it
possible for us to be here today.
But on this day, like the men and
women who brought these United States
into being 195 years ago, let us look more
795
