Appendix B
October
8 The President met with Ambassador at
Large David M. Kennedy, Peter G. Peter-
son, Executive Director of the Council on
International Economic Policy and As-
sistant to the President for International
Economic Affairs, and Dr. Henry A. Kis-
singer, Assistant to the President for Na-
tional Security Affairs, to discuss textile
negotiations in the Far East.
11 Aldo Moro, Foreign Minister of Italy, met
with the President at the White House.
II The President met with representatives of
the Sons of Italy who presented their 1971
Marconi Award to him. They were ac-
companied by John A. Volpe, Secretary of
Transportation.
12 The President met with bipartisan leaders
of the Senate and the House of Repre-
sentatives to discuss his plans to visit the
Soviet Union in May 1972.
13 Mayor Walter E. Washington and Police
Chief Jerry V. Wilson of the District of
Columbia met with the President at the
White House to discuss District matters.
13 Henry C. Clausen, sovereign grand com-
mander, southern jurisdiction of Scottish
Rite Masons, called on the President at the
White House.
13 Ten Members of the House of Representa-
tives met with the President at the White
House to present a petition signed by more
than 300 Members of the House expressing
opposition to the expulsion of the Republic
of China from the United Nations.
13 In a ceremony in the Blue Room at the
White House, the President received diplo-
matic credentials from Ambassadors Ab-
dulla al Suwesi of Libya, Eduardo Z.
Romualdez of the Philippines, Christophe
Maidou of the Central African Republic,
and Francois Xavier Tchoungui of Cam-
eroon, and from the members of the Pana-
manian negotiating team on the Panama
Canal negotiations, Ambassadors José An-
tonio de la Ossa, Carlos Lopez Guevara,
and Fernando Manfredo.
October
13 The President hosted a reception at the
White House for members of Citizens for
a New Prosperity.
14 The President has ratified the Interna-
tional Convention Relating to Intervention
on the High Seas in Cases of Oil Pollution
Casualties and also amendments to the
International Convention for the Preven-
tion of the Pollution of the Sea by Oil.
18 Maxie Baughan, Jack Pardee, and George
Burman of the Washington Redskins were
invited to meet with the President in his
office as they were touring the White House
with their families.
18 Representatives of the National Association
of Retired Federal Employees met with the
President at the White House.
18 The President and Mrs. Nixon attended the
opening of the Eisenhower Theater in the
John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing
Arts, where they saw a performance of
Ibsen's "A Doll's House."
19 Prime Minister Sirimavo Bandaranaike of
Ceylon met with the President at the White
House, during a private visit to Washington
following her attendance at the United Na-
tions General Assembly.
19 Representatives of the National Multiple
Sclerosis Society met with the President at
the White House, to mark the Society's 25th
anniversary.
19 Secretary of the Treasury John B. Connally
will be the President's representative at the
inauguration of President Nguyen Van
Thieu of the Republic of Vietnam on Octo-
ber 31. He will also visit other countries in
the area, including Thailand, the Philip-
pines, and Japan, for discussions of interna-
tional economic matters.
20 The President sent a message of congratula-
tions to Chancellor Willy Brandt of the Fed-
eral Republic of Germany upon the Chan-
cellor's designation as winner of the Nobel
Peace Prize. The President also sent letters
of congratulation to American winners of
Nobel prizes.
1265
