Richard Nixon, 1971
May 25 [181]
capsule this very special year for this city
in the right way.
A hundred years seems like a long time,
but as I am sure you know, Birmingham,
which is one of the great cities of the
world, is one of the youngest big cities of
the world, because most great cities go
back many years more than 100 years. So
this is a young city. It is a big city. It has
a great spirit. It has won the prize as the
All-American City, and that is another
reason I am very proud to be here.
There is a tendency always on such a
day as this—a day when you are looking
forward to the celebration of your 100th
anniversary, and when you, therefore, are
thinking of the past-to think mostly of
the past, of the great days in the history
of this city, of this State, and this Nation.
And it is well that you think of the past.
I know that the people of this city and
the people of this State are proud of their
State; they are proud of their city and they
are proud of their country.
But at this particular time, this is the
time particularly when we see all of the
young people that are here, and all those
wonderful bands that we saw all the way
along reminded me of the fact that many
schools were out, from the high schools
and the other schools in the area. This re-
minds us all of our obligation to the future.
Let me say that coming here to Birm-
ingham after being in Mobile, seeing the
vitality of this area, seeing the great
love of country that you have, whether
they are Democrats or Republicans
among those that I visited, whether they
are officials or people in any walks of life,
there is a respect for the office of the Presi-
dency. There is a respect for this country
and a love of this country.
Let me say, I am convinced that what
is now termed the New South, with new
economic development, with new strength,
is going to contribute enormously to
America in the future. But even more than
that is the spirit that you have. I don't
believe that I have ever seen in any Amer-
ican city, either here or any place else,
more American flags than I saw today.
And I know what that flag means to
you. It means that you love your country,
that
you want your country to be strong,
that you want your country to work for
the great cause of peace in the world, as
well as peace for America-that cause we
are dedicated to and that we are going to
bring.
We are going to find the way to give
our young people a chance, a chance to
have what none of us have had in this
century in America: a full generation of
peace.
And the way we can do that is not only
to end the war in which we are engaged
in a way that will discourage aggression,
but also to keep America strong so that a
strong America will be able to negotiate
for the kind of peace that all the world
wants.
The military strength is one thing.
There is another kind of strength that is
more important. When America was very
young 190 years ago, when it was very
weak, this Nation had a spirit—you all re-
member what it was a spirit that caught
the imagination of the world. It was called
the "Spirit of the American Revolution."
And there are some who say we don't have
it today. Well, they are wrong.
I sense it here. I sense it every place I
go over this country. The American spirit
is strong. It is deep. We have had prob-
lems, problems of division, differences be-
tween States, between regions, between
religions, between races, between the
generations.
663
