[98] Mar. 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
I do not believe it will be done other-
wise. But neither do I despair of its being
done, because I believe you will do the
job, and not only you here in uniform but
your generation.
I remember very clearly an address
President Eisenhower made in March of
1960 to a White House Conference on
Children and Youth. He said, "our chil-
dren understand, as we did not in our own
youthful days, the need-now approach-
ing the absolute for peace with justice
among the things we teach to the
young are such truths as the transcendent
value of the individual and the dignity of
all people, the futility and stupidity of
war, its destructiveness of life and its deg-
radation of human values."
In a decade of war since that time, the
children he was talking about have grown
up. Some of you are here today. As the
years have passed and I have watched
your generation, I have understood the
wisdom of his words. The man the French
called the peace general had a vision
of "the peace generation," and it has come
to pass. You will be that generation.
As you take up your responsibilities to-
day, as you begin the great work before
you, I want to remind you that you are
not alone, that people of other nations
have served bravely and do so today in
behalf of a lasting peace. We are not the
only nation that desires the end of war.
We are the most powerful nation, but
gallant people around the globe share our
faith that the world is moving in the way
of peace with freedom and with justice
for all. Some of them are here today. I
want to salute those members of the
naval forces of the Republic of Vietnam
who are here today.
I have known their country. I have
known their struggle for almost 20 years.
I have visited Vietnam seven times. I
have seen firsthand the courage of the
Vietnamese people, their endurance, their
sacrifice, their will to be free.
The rights we have learned to take for
granted, they are still fighting for.
War has been the condition of man
from the dawn of history. Some have said
that wars are made by something ignorant
in the human heart. If this is so, then per-
haps peace will come through something
splendid in the human soul. Perhaps man
will learn not to answer what is primeval
in his blood, but rather to heed what is
divine in his humanity.
However it may come, it is certain that
peace and the greedy ambitions of gov-
ernments cannot survive in the same
world. But I believe it is the ambition of
governments that is going to fail, because
from having seen the world, almost all the
world, I know the people of the world
want peace.
Through time they have watched the
harvest of the plowshare rot in the fields
and on the vines while they have reaped
the harvest of the sword. It would be dif-
ficult to suppose that God created man for
this end, and difficult to doubt the wisdom
of the Prophet, that "the work of right-
eousness shall be peace. . .
So we have dreamed no small dream.
We have set ourselves no easy task. We
seek to do the work of righteousness. In
that work the years you give will not be
lost. They will be redeemed along with
the hopes of humanity.
I join all of you in congratulating those
who graduated with distinction, and I
join all of you, too, in congratulating all
of those who are graduating today. For
whatever it is worth from a personal
standpoint, I did not graduate with dis-
tinction from Quonset.
430
