Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 25 [75]
be lost in the confusion of unbridled com-
mercial and national ambitions.
A closely related problem relates to the
age-old right of freedom of navigation on
the high seas. Traditional usage and cur-
rent international law have proved to be
inadequate barriers to claims which gen-
erate international tensions and endanger
the rights of all to use the oceans. The
claims of some nations now extend 200
miles seaward. The temptation to assert
and defend such claims can only increase
as technology provides new means to
profit from exclusive rights to the ocean's
surface.
In the past year the United States has
taken the initiative in moving the world
toward an equitable resolution of these
two problems, while they are still soluble.
On May 23 I set forth an oceans policy
which called for both a system of inter-
national regulation for the deep seabeds,
and a new agreement on the breadth of
territorial seas.
Our proposal for the seabeds would
divide the ocean floor into two basic
categories:
-Coastal states would maintain their
rights to the natural resources of the
seabeds up to the point where the
high seas reach a depth of 200
meters.
-Seabeds under the remainder of the
high seas would be regulated by an
international regime. However,
coastal states would license explora-
tion and exploitation of resources as
trustees for the international com-
munity beyond the 200 meter depth
line to a further line which would
embrace the continental margins.
As I said at the time: "The regime
should provide for the collection of sub-
stantial mineral royalties to be used for
international community purposes, par-
ticularly economic assistance to develop-
ing countries. It should also establish
general rules to prevent unreasonable
interference with other uses of the ocean,
to protect the ocean from pollution, to
assure the integrity of investment neces-
sary for such exploitation, and to provide
for peaceful and compulsory settlement
of disputes."
In August, our Government submitted
to the UN a draft treaty suggesting in
detail how such a system would work. We
are seeking a system which fully protects
the interests of the less-developed coun-
tries in the ocean resources, as well as the
interests of those nations which now
possess the technological capacity to
exploit them. Such an arrangement is
both fair and practical. For these re-
sources are a common heritage of man-
kind, and their benefits should be shared
by all. And the world is unlikely to give
its sanction to arrangements which do not
ensure a wide sharing of those benefits.
The mineral royalties involved will even-
tually be very large. Earmarking them
for international purposes particularly
the development of the poorer nations-
could be a tremendous step forward
toward a solution to one of the world's
most grievous problems.
On the territorial seas issue, we have
proposed a new law of the sea treaty,
which would establish a twelve-mile
limit for territorial seas adjacent to a na-
tion's coasts and would provide for free
transit through and over international
straits. It would also provide for conserva-
tion of the living resources of the high seas
and recognition of the special interests of
the coastal states over these resources.
These ideas were extensively discussed
at the UN last fall. The U.S. initiative
333
