[148] Apr. 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
which I will take, will permit this Nation
to carry out the major reforms which are
necessary to improve the effectiveness of
our foreign assistance program and to fit
it to our new approach.
I believe that this new approach is of
major importance in promoting the na-
tional security and foreign policy interests
of the United States in this decade and
beyond. I believe that it is sound, and will
blend as effectively as possible our spe-
cial strengths with those of other nations
and institutions. It is an approach through
which we can focus the energies and re-
sources of this great Nation on the se-
curity and development problems of those
peoples living in poorer nations who wish
to improve their lives, but lack the re-
sources and the expertise to do so. I
believe that this program is worthy of
your support.
I therefore reaffirm my commitment,
and the commitment of this administra-
tion, to seek an effective U.S. foreign as-
sistance program for the 1970s. It is our
objective to work for peace, not only in
our time but for future generations, and
we can make no better investment toward
that end than to participate fully in an
international effort to build prosperity and
hope for a better tomorrow among all
nations. I urge the Congress to join with
me in making the reforms I propose today
so that together we can achieve these great
goals.
The White House
April 21, 1971
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: On the same day, the White House re-
leased a summary of the message and the
transcript of a news briefing on the mes-
sage by Peter G. Peterson, Executive Direc-
tor, and Ernest Stern, senior staff member,
Council on International Economic Policy;
C. Fred Bergsten, Assistant for International
Economic Affairs, National Security Council;
and James R. Schlesinger, Assistant Director,
Office of Management and Budget.
149 Message to the Senate Transmitting Treaty
on the United States-Mexico Boundary.
April 21, 1971
To the Senate of the United States:
With a view to receiving the advice and
consent of the Senate to ratification, I
transmit herewith the treaty to resolve
pending boundary differences and main-
tain the Rio Grande and Colorado River
as the international boundary between the
United States of America and the United
Mexican States, signed at Mexico City on
November 23, 1970.
I transmit also, for the information of
the Senate, the report of the Secretary
of State with respect to the treaty.
This treaty, it is believed, constitutes as
fair a settlement as can be negotiated of all
pending boundary differences and un-
certainties with Mexico, and represents a
comprehensive attempt on the part of the
two Governments to deal with existing
and future boundary problems.
The provisions of the treaty are out-
lined and explained in the enclosed report
of the Secretary of State. Under the treaty
the Governments would settle the existing
disputes and uncertainties regarding the
location of the boundary along the Rio
578
