Richard Nixon, 1971
Sept. 1 [281]
effect on the economy, I am not prepared
to make a decision with respect to the
October 1972 increase at this time. After
reviewing the economic situation during
the first half of 1972, I will give serious
consideration to the need for an alterna-
tive plan to that scheduled increase. If I
conclude that an alternative plan is nec-
essary I will, in accordance with the afore-
mentioned provision of law, submit such
a plan to Congress before September 1,
1972. It appears highly unlikely that
any
such plan would involve a postponement
of the October 1972 adjustments beyond
January 1973.
Our Nation's public servants are en-
titled to a fair wage in line with the estab-
lished policy of comparability with pri-
vate enterprise; I regret the necessity of
postponing pay increases, but our fight
against the rising cost of living must take
precedence. Of course, success in hold-
ing down inflation will benefit the Gov-
ernment worker as well as all Americans.
I urge your support of this postpone-
ment.
The White House
August 31, 1971
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The message, dated August 31, 1971,
was transmitted to the Congress on Septem-
ber 1.
The text of the message was released at
San Clemente, Calif.
281 Memorandum About Deferment of Federal Wage
Increases. September 1, 1971
Memorandum for the Heads of Executive
Departments and Agencies:
SUBJECT: Deferment of Federal Wage
Increases
On August 15, 1971, I announced a
number of new economic initiatives to
combat the persistent problems of infla-
tion and unemployment. One of the key
aims of Executive Order 11615 is a sus-
tained effort to achieve continuing stabili-
zation of salaries, wages, prices and rents
throughout the economy.
One of the actions which I announced
to implement the new economic policy is
to defer pay raises for Federal workers
for a period of six months. Accordingly,
in order to comply with the needs of the
public interest, as provided in subchapter
IV of Chapter 53 of title 5, United States
Code, I direct that the schedules for con-
ducting wage surveys be revised so that
beginning September 1, 1971, wage ad-
justments for all Federal wage employees
will be delayed for a total period of six
months, including the delay occasioned
by my action of August 15, 1971. As soon
as practicable following the period of
delay, the normal survey cycle should be
resumed.
I am designating the Chairman of the
Civil Service Commission to coordinate
the requirements of this directive and to
develop similar plans with the heads of
executive departments and agencies hav-
ing negotiated wage schedules and rates or
wage schedules which are administra-
tively established so that an equivalent
deferment of any wage increases will be
achieved for Federal wage employees cov-
ered by such plans.
RICHARD NIXON
NOTE: The text of the memorandum was re-
leased at San Clemente, Calif.
923
