Richard Nixon, 1971
Jan. 5 [7]
So this means that the young people
of America are a very volatile group, that
they are a group that both parties are
going to have to go out and have to try
to win. I think we have just as good a
shot at them as others do, but we don't
have the confidence of young people that
some in the other party have at this time,
because we have all the problems and we
are responsible for them.
But if we can end the war, if we can
end the draft, if we can bring jobs and
equal opportunity without the cost of war
and without the cost of a rising inflation,
I believe that young people as they see our
very imaginative programs for reform-
ing government, for the environment, and
the rest, that they will be attracted to our
party not as a party, but to our principles
beyond party.
THE NEW FEDERALISM
[24.] MR. CHANCELLOR. Mr. President,
you signed two bills last week, one setting
Federal standards on water pollution, an-
other Federal standards on job safety.
How do you reconcile the necessity for
Federal standards in this country with
avowed desire to return some of this
your
power to the people?
THE PRESIDENT. You cannot return all
the
power to the people, Mr. Chancellor.
For example, social security is an area that
should be handled at the Federal level.
And in the case of job standards, these
things cross State lines. You see they in-
volve interstate commerce, and that is
why that can't be returned to the people.
But if you will listen to my State of the
Union Message-I have been working on
it for the past month-this program will
separate out those programs that must be
kept by the Federal Government, and
have others go to the people.
MR. SMITH. Mr. President, ladies and
gentlemen, excuse me, we have just about
run out of time. And I don't think we
have asked one-third the questions we
wanted to, or had time to get one-third
the answers. But on behalf of my col-
leagues I thank you very much for this
conversation.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very
much, Mr. Smith. And I would like to
say that since you said exactly that same
thing 6 months ago, that means you got
one-third 6 months ago, one-third tonight,
so we will give you another shot about 6
months from now, if you would like.
NOTE: The interview was broadcast live on
radio and television beginning at 9 p.m. from
the Library at the White House.
A previously televised "Conversation with
the President" on foreign policy, which was
referred to several times during this interview,
took place on July 1, 1970 and is Item 208 in
the 1970 volume.
7 Statement About the Legislative Record of the
91st Congress. January 5, 1971
THE 91st Congress of the United States
has now passed into history. Much useful
and valuable, even historic legislation, was
enacted-responsive in whole or part to
the initiatives and recommendations of
the Administration. Yet, regrettably, this
Congress will be remembered and re-
marked upon in history not so much for
what it did, but for what it failed to do.
With the rising national demand for
23
