Richard Nixon, 1971
Apr. 16 [144]
[laughter]-but, nevertheless, I congratu-
late Mr. McKnight on his election as your
new president. I understand that after we
finish with this distinguished panel you
will have the opportunity to have him
sworn in, and then he will make his
inaugural speech, to which we will all
listen.
Tonight, the panel has already been
introduced, and we will go directly to the
questions because I know there will be
many. I understand that Mr. Dickinson,
on my right-I always turn right first-
[laughter]-Mr. Dickinson will have the
first question.
QUESTIONS
THE PRESIDENT'S WORRIES
[2.] Mr. Dickinson.
WILLIAM B. DICKINSON (executive
editor, Philadelphia Bulletin). Mr. Presi-
dent, I suppose that like most of us, you
must have times when you wake up at
3 a.m. or 4 a.m. and you lie there in the
predawn darkness and you think or even
worry a little bit. I wonder, sir, if you
would tell us what thoughts or worries at
this stage of your Presidency come to mind.
at a time like that?
[Inaudible]
THE PRESIDENT. We have six members
of the panel, too.
Well, Mr. Dickinson, it is quite true
that just like every other person who has
problems, the President of the United
States does wake up in the middle of the
night, and he worries about sometimes
personal problems but usually about prob-
lems of the Nation, with which he has
tried to wrestle during the day.
I think more often than not the prob-
lems I worry about at night are those in-
volving foreign policy. That seems to be
necessary at this time in the Presidency-
not that the great domestic problems, the
problems of the economy, the problems of
race relations, the problems of the younger
generation, et cetera, do not often also
cause great concern in the middle of the
night as well as in the daytime.
But at night, if there is any one subject
that more often than not comes across
my mind, it is what can I do the next day
that will contribute toward the goal of a
lasting peace for America and for the
world.
That is almost a trite statement. Every
President wants that. Every President has
worked for it. But we have seen so much
in this century-wars ended and then
another war coming, wars ended with
great hopes of lasting peace and then the
foundations laid for another war.
I believe now we are ending American
involvement in a war we are in, a very
difficult war. But we are going to end it
in a way that will contribute to a lasting
peace. And then beyond that I believe
that we are entering a new era of rela-
tions with other super powers in the world,
a new era, for example, in our relations
with the Soviet Union and a new era in
potential relationships with the People's
Republic of China. I don't mean that at
3 a.m. in the morning I make decisions
as to what we are going to do about China
policy or Soviet policy or the Mideast or
Berlin or the rest, but I do know that
sometimes the mind is clearer then; the
thoughts come through much sharper
than they do in the morning.
I have a little habit-I will let you all
in on my secrets. You can use it for the
p.m.'s, if you don't mind. But I write it
down. And sometimes in the morning it
doesn't look so good, but sometimes the
535
