[6] Jan. 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
Treasury, Mr. Connally, is going to devote
more of his time to, than getting that
through.
I noticed, incidentally, because I was
interested in your reactions to the Con-
nally appointment, that some wondered
what good is it going to do. They were
thinking that it had to do with Texas
politics in '72. Let me be quite candid. We
need, I need, this country needs John
Connally as Secretary of the Treasury and
in this Cabinet because he is persuasive,
he is strong, and he will be effective in
helping us get through the Democratic
Congress the kind of measures that we
need in this domestic field that we haven't
been able to get through over the past 2
years. I am confident he will do that.
THE TICKET IN 1972
[20.] MR. CHANCELLOR. Mr. President,
I feel impelled to break in here and ask you
a question about the ticket in '72 because
you have heard as many rumors as we
have, I am sure, that John Connally is
being groomed to be your vice presidential
running mate. And I know you are not
going to talk to us about that, sir, at this
stage, but would you absolutely now rule
out any Democrat running with you in
'72? Could you go that far?
THE PRESIDENT. I am not even going
to comment as to what my own plans are,
Mr. Chancellor. You, of course, knew that
when you asked the question, but it was
proper to ask it because all of our listeners
and viewers would have said, "These
people are being soft on Nixon."
You would lose your jobs if you started
doing that.
Actually, let me say that this is public
service time. I know there is an interest
in politics. As a President, I am the leader
of my party. That is one of my jobs. And
in a campaign, I try to lead my party. But
this is a non-campaign year and now I am
going to wear my hat as President of the
United States and that is where I will be
on this program and on other programs
for the balance of '71.
THE 1970 CAMPAIGN
[21.] MR. SEVAREID. Mr. President, now
that we are into the subject of politics—————
THE PRESIDENT. You can still ask the
questions, but I may not give you the
answers.
MR. SEVAREID. —if you had the
November election to do over again, what
would you do differently?
THE PRESIDENT. I never try to second-
guess elections. And here we get back to
Mr. Smith's point a moment ago, or my
answer to his question. After what hap-
pened to me in the 1960 elections, when I
thought of what could I have done differ-
ently to have changed 9,000 votes in
Illinois, or 8,000 votes in Missouri, or
10,000 votes in South Carolina, or 3,000
votes in New Mexico-I didn't go
through that agony then when the na-
tional election was involved and, frankly,
I am not going to go through it now with
regard to the '70 elections.
I will only say this: I believe that I had
a responsibility, having made certain
pledges to the people when I ran for
President, to work for the election of
Senators, and I campaigned particularly
for Senators, as you know, Senators who
would support me in those policies. Some-
times we succeeded; sometimes we failed.
Now that campaign is over and I am
going to work with those that got in de-
spite my opposition and those who went
with us as best we possibly can.
20
