[245] July 31
Public Papers of the Presidents
in this audience, to the people through the
years who never gave up hope. You
dreamed of this dam and what it could do
for southern Iowa. And despite the fact
that you went up the Hill and down the
Hill, got it authorized and then waited 7
years before a dime was appropriated for
it, to you goes the credit, because you had
the vision and the energy to plan the proj-
ect and you had the vision and the energy
and the determination to push it through
to its completion.
Some of you may have seen an open let-
ter which appeared in the Centerville
Iowegian-is that correct?-several weeks
ago; I asked John Kyl and he said, "Well,
most people don't pronounce it quite that
precisely." But the Centerville Iowegian-
one of the readers of that paper sent me a
copy of this open letter, and the editor sent
me one, too, inviting me to come out for
the dedication. I am sure that some of
you
happened to read the letter. Let me tell
you what the most persuasive part of it
was to me. It had a great deal to do with
my coming, in addition, of course, to the
invitation extended by people here and
by John Kyl, Jack Miller.
Here is what the letter said. It said by
coming to Centerville and, of course, here
to Lake Rathbun, I would be able to "see
once again the heart of rural America, an
area valiantly struggling to stay in the
mainstream of our national development."
Think of that as you hear what I now
say. To me there is nothing more impor
tant than to keep our rural areas and their
people right in the American mainstream.
As I have learned a little about the
Rathbun area, and I can see what that
letter meant, the record of the last 10 years
is impressive. You recall that there was a
very severe population loss in the 1950's,
a population loss which has been felt by
the loss of a Congressman by result of
redistricting. But Centerville brought the
decline almost to a standstill in the 1960's,
and now you are ready to start gaining in
the years ahead.
How did you do it? Well, you attracted
new industry. You moved successfully
from a largely agricultural economy in
1960, to one evenly balanced today be-
tween agriculture and industry. Now,
with the opening of this Lake Rathbun,
you are introducing into the economic
picture a third very promising element:
recreation.
I saw all the boats down there. I
thought of them, the fishing boats, and
all of the opportunities that were there,
and the thousands of people that will be
coming there from all over Iowa and Mis-
souri and the other surrounding country
to enjoy these recreation opportunities.
So what we find here is that the com-
munities in this region-Ottumwa, Cen-
terville, all the other cities and towns rep-
resented-what you are doing is to resist
rural stagnation, and you are moving for-
ward with healthy rural development.
That same story, I can report to you, is
being repeated thousands of times over
in other parts of rural America. I was
down in Tulsa, Oklahoma, a few weeks
ago, dedicating another project like this.
There it has revitalized the whole area,
the building of a dam with the water and
all the other resources that result from it.
What is happening is that rural devel-
opment, which was for so long in the early
periods of the history of this country taken
for granted, and recently so long ignored,
is finally starting to get the attention it
deserves. The people of this Nation's
farms and the smaller communities have
not been receiving their fair share of prog-
ress and prosperity and the better things
842
