[378] Dec. I
Public Papers of the Presidents
They saw that it was time to pull down
the generational stereotypes-involved,
hip, silent, beat, lost-and to raise a new
standard of brotherhood, tolerance, and
mutual respect between those generations.
As these new attitudes have taken hold,
young America has passed from its stormy
night of recent years into what I believe
will be a bright new morning.
College turmoil has subsided sharply-
not in resignation, but in wisdom. High
schools, young working people—the next
declared target of the radicals-have not
caught fire as they were expected to. Opin-
ion surveys have detected a rising disgust
with political radicalism, even in strong-
holds of the counterculture.
Most of you in this great audience are
not only witnesses to these developments,
you are leaders in them. You could not be
leaders in a more important cause. For the
more convincingly the young majority
demonstrates its resilience and levelhead-
edness, the faster you will find the so-called
Establishment responding to your hopes,
opening to your aspirations.
The young in America are no longer
going to be treated as a mass or a bloc in
this country-neither as a generation
apart nor as a generation idolized. You
deserve better than that. And you will
have better, for America is rapidly mov-
ing to take you, the young, into full part-
nership as individuals in our society.
Your country knows how much it needs
you, and we are proving that, not just with
talk but with action.
We need your voice, first, in the political
process, as soon as you are prepared for
that trust-and that should not take 21
years of
your life. That is why I was able
last July to certify passage in record time
of the 26th Amendment lowering the vot-
ing age to 18.
We need your abilities, your insights, in
the making of public policy. And that is
why I have directed departments in
the Federal Government and agencies
throughout the executive branch of the
Government to recruit young talent and
to hear young ideas. That is why I have
brought an unprecedented number of men
and women in their twenties into positions
of trust on the White House Staff.
We need your energies in the urgent
work of helping the less fortunate across
America and in other lands. That is why
we have moved to expand and improve
the Peace Corps and VISTA programs by
merging them into a form of [a] new
volunteer service agency, ACTION.
That is why we have initiated the Uni-
versity Year for ACTION to draw thou-
sands of young people into this new effort.
And that is why we have also worked
outside government to make voluntarism
a vital force in the independent sector-
so that every single American who wants
to serve his fellow man can have an
avenue for doing so.
Young people today, every survey
shows, are more generously committed to
human betterment through voluntary
service than any generation before you.
Your own work in 4-H has shown what
mountains that commitment can move. I
urge you to redouble it, to share it, to
maintain it throughout your lives.
Very few of you will enter government
as a full-time activity. But whatever your
jobs may be outside of government, I
would ask that each of you make a com-
mitment now to pledge a part of your
time to volunteer service for your com-
munity throughout your lives. It will be
worthwhile.
We need to be sure that you are free to
shape your own career along the lines that
1148
