Richard Nixon, 1971
May 11 [164]
|
164 Statement About Proposed Legislation To
Establish a National Cancer Program. May 11, 1971
CANCER has become one of mankind's
deadliest and most elusive enemies. The
conquest of cancer is one of the most
important efforts of our time.
Success will test the very limits of our
imagination and our resourcefulness. It
will require a high sense of purpose and a
strong sense of discipline.
In my message to the Congress on the
State of the Union on January 22, 1971,
and again in my special message to the
Congress concerning a national health
strategy on February 18, 1971, I ex-
pressed my determination to wage a
successful campaign against this dread
disease. I called upon the Congress to
appropriate an additional $100 million
to support such an effort. I am pleased
that in recent days the Appropriations
Committees in both the Senate and the
House of Representatives have favorably
viewed this request, and I am hopeful
that the House—which votes today—and
the Senate will both follow the committee
recommendations.
FEARS AND HOPES ABOUT CANCER
Across the Nation, there is a growing
consensus that our vast scientific and tech-
nological resources should promptly be
marshaled in an unprecedented attack on
this devastating disease.
This consensus springs both from fear
and from hope.
Cancer is second only to heart disease
in the number of lives it takes in this
country. And the nature of its ravages
makes it our most feared disease. If the
present incidence of cancer were to con-
tinue, some 52 million Americans who are
alive today would contract this disease
someday. This means that cancer would
strike one out of every four individuals in
this country—and two out of every three
American families. It would mean that
in the next 10 years alone, 32 million
Americans would die from cancer. For
many of its victims, death is a slow and
painful process. And for many of their
families, the personal tragedy is com-
pounded by the financial implications of
a prolonged disease.
At the same time, however, there is
much reason for hope.
New vistas are now opening for fur-
ther research into the treatment and pre-
vention of cancer, the result of some re-
markable advances which have been made
during the past 10 years as we have multi-
plied many times over our fundamental
knowledge in this area. Virus research,
for example, has demonstrated that can-
cer can be produced in animals by over
110 of the nearly 1,000 viruses that science
has identified. We have learned that ani-
mal cancers can be induced by over 1,000
chemical substances. Effective measures
for preventing cancer have been devel-
oped in animals, and scientists have even
demonstrated that human cancers can be
prevented by avoiding exposure to certain
chemicals. Other advances include new
surgical procedures, more effective radia-
tion therapy, and techniques for treating
cancer with improved combinations of
known drugs.
All of these developments have fueled
our hopes and provided a broad frontier
of possibilities for researchers in the
months and years ahead. This is why I was
able to suggest in my special health mes-
631
