Richard Nixon, 1971
Oct. 22 [338]
ending it in a way that will not jeopardize
the peace that we are trying to build, in
a way, as a matter of fact, that will build
for the peace in the Pacific and peace in
the world which we are all interested in.
But we have gone far beyond that. Just
ending a war would be an accomplish-
ment; but as I look down to the end of
this century, I think of the fact-par-
ticularly, as I see these teenagers here in
front of us, these wonderful pages that
you have, and I see them all over the
country at the meetings that we have, I
think of their future-I think of the fact
that in this century we have not yet had
one full generation where we have had
peace for the United States.
We had World War I, and when it was
over everybody thought, "Well, we are
not going to have a war now for the next
generation," then World War II came
along. Then with the end of World War II
and the United Nations conference, there
were great hopes for peace until the end
of the century, and then Korea came
along. Then after President Eisenhower
ended Korea, we thought that, "Well, we
are not going to have to go through this
again, at least for some time," and then
Vietnam came along. Now Vietnam is
coming to an end.
So the question is not just ending a war;
the question is building a peace. There
is nothing that I want more in the world
than to see these teenagers, young Ameri-
cans today, to have what we have not had
in this century: a generation of peace. I
believe we can do it.
But you build a generation of peace by
talking not just to your friends but to
your opponents. That is one of the reasons
why I am making an historic trip to Main-
land China. That is one of the reasons
why I am also making a trip to the Soviet
Union.
I have no illusions, just as they have no
illusions, that these trips are going to solve
the differences that exist between great
powers that have philosophical and geo-
graphical and national differences that
cannot be resolved by one meeting, or
perhaps by any series of meetings.
But I do know this: As I look to the
future of the world, as I look at the 750
million people who live in Mainland
China, as I look at the 300 million people
who live in the Soviet Union, I realize that
it is far better, even though we have dif-
ferences that cannot be settled, to talk
about those differences than fight about
them. And that is what we are going to do.
I believe that these trips, combined with
the other initiatives that we have taken,
talking to our friends in Europe, in Latin
America, in Africa, and Asia, will help to
build the structure which is essential to
have a generation of peace.
We cannot guarantee it. That would be
unfair. It would raise hopes that might be
dashed. But we shall work toward it, and
we have a better chance to get it than we
have had at any time since World War II,
because we have a policy and a plan
directed toward that end; not one that
looks just to the next election, not one
that looks just to the end of the present
war, but one that says, "How do we avoid
other Vietnams; how do we open the
world so that we can travel freely through-
out the world; how do we have negotia-
tion rather than confrontation?"
This is what we work on, and this is
the great goal that "The Spirit of '76,"
of
course, will, we trust, be celebrating.
Then we come to the other side of the
coin. We have peace in the world—let's
1059
