Richard Nixon, 1971
Mar. 16 [101]
ΙΟΙ
Remarks of Welcome to Prime Minister John M.
March 16, 1971
Lynch of Ireland.
Prime Minister Lynch, Mrs. Lynch, and
all of our distinguished guests today:
A few months ago, Mr. Prime Minister,
when you welcomed us so warmly to Ire-
land, we promised that when you came
to Washington we would try to give you a
real Irish welcome.
This beautiful Washington day in the
springtime and this great crowd of people
from all over the Washington area, and
particularly the schoolchildren from the
Washington area, have tried to tell you
what the people of this country think of
Ireland and of our Irish heritage, because
tomorrow, on St. Patrick's Day, everyone
in America will be just a little bit Irish,
we can assure you.
And on this particular day we want
you to know that you are welcome, not
only in your official capacity as Prime
Minister of your government. We also re-
call that on another occasion just 12 years
ago, President O'Kelly ¹ came to the
United States and celebrated St. Patrick's
Day in the United States.
And we are very honored that you,
as Prime Minister, would come here on
this very special day and will be in Phil-
adelphia tomorrow for the 200th anni-
versary of the Friendly Sons of St. Pat-
rick in Philadelphia.
When we think of our heritage and
of our common bonds, we think of many
things. But a moment ago you were refer-
ring to the music. The first song that was
played by the Marines as they marched
in review was the Navy song.
1
As we heard the stirring Irish National
¹ Sean T. O'Kelly, President of Ireland
1945-59.
Anthem, I recall at one part of it, and a
part that is particularly meaningful to us
here and to you in your own country, are
the words "sworn to be free." That is the
Irish spirit of Ireland. It is the Irish spirit
that has also meant so much to America.
And it is significant to note that Cap-
tain John Barry, an Irishman of course,
was the one who founded the United
States Navy, the Navy which has, among
all of our services, had such a long tradi-
tion of working toward that great goal of
being sworn to be free.
So on this occasion, we welcome you
because of the close bonds our two coun-
tries have, because of the close ties our
two peoples have, and also we welcome
you because on this occasion we think of
what it means to be sworn to be free.
You believe that. We believe that. And
together we work for that in our countries
and throughout the world.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:44 a.m. on
the South Lawn at the White House where
Prime Minister Lynch received a formal wel-
come with full military honors.
Prime Minister Lynch responded as follows:
Mr. President, Mrs. Nixon:
My wife and I would like to thank you, sir,
Mrs. Nixon, and all you people for the warmth
of the welcome that you have extended to us
here this morning on the White House lawn.
This official welcome on this lawn symbolizes
the warmth and friendliness that have always
been shown to Ireland and to the Irish people
by you Americans.
We have, my wife and I and my party, in
the past few days during our visit to this great
country experienced in a very special way that
warmth and that friendliness.
You have made us feel at home and, indeed,
what Irishman and Irishwoman cannot but feel
at home in the United States-but nowhere
433
