[328] Oct. 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
this is after May 1, as far as domestic polit-
ical politics is concerned?
THE PRESIDENT. We have this just as
close to May I as we possibly could. This
was the best date that the Soviet Union
and we could agree upon, and it will come,
as I said, in the latter part of May.
We both deliberately agreed that it
should not come-which would generally
have been their first choice, because June
or July is a better time to go to Moscow
than May, I understand-we agreed for
the reasons that we have mentioned that
it should be in May.
AMERICAN INVOLVEMENT IN SOUTH
VIETNAM
[9.] Q. Mr. President, you said that it
is your goal to end the American involve-
ment in South Vietnam or at least make
significant progress towards that by the
time you meet in Moscow. Is it your goal
that you can end at least the American
ground combat involvement by that time?
THE PRESIDENT. I will have another
announcement on Vietnam in November.
That announcement will speak to that
question, and other announcements after
that will also speak to that question.
I will not speculate further on that. The
American presence in Vietnam, both in
terms of our residual forces, the ground
combat forces to which you refer, and the
use of our airpower, will be maintained to
meet the objectives that I have often-
times spelled out, including among others,
the return of our POW's and the ability of
the South Vietnamese to take over the
responsibility themselves. But I would
strongly urge the members of the
press not
to speculate as to what I am going to
say in November.
LABOR AND THE PAY BOARD
[10.] Q. Mr. President, a question on
Phase 2, sir. Are you prepared to give the
tripartite Pay Board complete autonomy
in order to gain labor's cooperation?
THE PRESIDENT. A meeting is taking
place at this moment, and perhaps may
be nearing conclusion, in which the AFL-
CIO Council is discussing their participa-
tion in the tripartite Board and the ques-
tion as to the extent of their cooperation
with our efforts to control inflation.
I believe, first, that Secretary Connally
answered your question-and that is our
position-in his press conference. As far
as any further discussion with regard to
the role that labor will play, and the rela-
tionship of the Board to the Cost of Living
Council, I think it would be well to wait
until their meeting has been concluded.
If they make a statement today, I will
issue a statement from here commenting
upon that specific matter, if it is raised.
CONSULTATIONS WITH ALLIES ON THE
TRIPS
[11.] Q. Mr. President, could you tell
us what consultations were made with the
NATO allies or Japan on these two visits?
THE PRESIDENT. All were informed.
THE SUPREME COURT
[12.] Q. Mr. President, can you tell us
when you may make a nomination or
nominations to the Supreme Court and is
Senator Byrd of West Virginia on the list
of those you are considering?
THE PRESIDENT. He is definitely on the
list, and I will make the nominations next
week, both.
1034
