[340] Oct. 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
country, firmly resolved to remain the sovereign
architect of its own internal development and
of its foreign policy, Yugoslavia is vitally inter-
ested in the broadest democratic international
cooperation and in the removal of all barriers
and divisions that are hampering it.
Striving to contribute to the utmost to such
cooperation in a world of indivisible peace and
freedom, we are following with great attention
and understanding the new trends in the "era
of negotiations" to which you personally, Mr.
President, are contributing with your initiatives
and active involvement.
We are confident that this time, too, our open
exchange of views will contribute to better
mutual understanding, to the expansion of
bilateral cooperation and strengthening of joint
341
efforts for the easing of tensions and peaceful
solution of international problems which are
burdening the world.
I am gratified, esteemed friend, that this time
I shall also have the opportunity to visit some
parts of your great and beautiful country, whose
talented and enterprising people are engaged in
accomplishing great achievements as well as in
a search for solutions for the problems and needs
of man in this dynamic epoch of development
of science and technology.
I bring to the American people and to you,
Mr. President, the friendly greetings of the
peoples of Yugoslavia.
PRESIDENT NIXON. Zivila [Long live]
Yugoslavia!
PRESIDENT TITO. Zivila America!
Remarks to a National Association of Manufacturers
Teleconference. October 28, 1971
Good morning, Mr. Gullander, ladies and
gentlemen:
I regret that I am unable to be with
you today in person, but I do wish to
take this opportunity to greet you and to
make a few remarks on the subject of this
very important NAM teleconference. I
am happy to report that the 90-day wage-
price freeze we put into effect in mid-
August has been extraordinarily success-
ful. This success has been a great tribute
to the patriotism and the pride of the
American people.
In just over 2 weeks we shall move
into the post-freeze program. In formu-
lating this economic stabilization pro-
gram, I have talked with representatives
of all segments of the population, includ-
ing labor leaders, business leaders,
manufacturers, agricultural groups, in-
dustrialists, Congressional leaders, and
consumers. Through this program the ex-
isting price and wage freeze will be re-
placed by price and wage control
exercised by the Pay Board and the Price
Commission working with the Cost of
Living Council.
We are confronting inflation head on
with this program. We have launched an
offensive in this battle against inflation,
and we are going to win this battle. I
say that with confidence because the
American people and you, an important
and influential segment of the American
people, have shown such cooperation dur-
ing Phase 1.
The ideal of prosperity in a world of
peace has caught the imagination and
summoned up the will of the American
people. And I call upon you this morning,
the leaders of American business, to join
with me during the post-freeze period in
1066
