Richard Nixon, 1971
[203]
June 17
ministration by $14 million to permit the
immediate initiation of this program. This
money would be used to assist in the im-
mediate development and emplacement
of VA rehabilitation centers which will
permit both inpatient and outpatient care
of addicts in a community setting.
I am also asking that the Congress
amend the Narcotic Addict Rehabilita-
tion Act of 1966 to broaden the authority
under this Act for the use of methadone
maintenance programs. These programs
would be carried out under the most rigid
standards and would be subjected to con-
stant and painstaking reevaluation of
their effectiveness. At this time, the evi-
dence indicates that methadone is a use-
ful tool in the work of rehabilitating heroin
addicts, and that tool ought to be avail-
able to those who must do this work.
Finally, I will instruct the Special Con-
sultant for Narcotics and Dangerous
Drugs to review immediately all Federal
laws pertaining to rehabilitation and I
will submit any legislation needed to ex-
pedite the Federal rehabilitative role, and
to correct overlapping authorities and
other shortcomings.
ADDITIONAL ENFORCEMENT NEEDS
The Comprehensive Drug Abuse Pre-
vention and Control Act of 1970 provides
a sound base for the attack on the prob-
lem of the availability of narcotics in
America. In addition to tighter and more
enforceable regulatory controls, the meas-
ure provides law enforcement with
stronger and better tools. Equally im-
portant, the Act contains credible and
proper penalties against violators of the
drug law. Severe punishments are invoked
against the drug pushers and peddlers
while more lenient and flexible sanctions
are provided for the users. A seller can
receive fifteen years for a first offense in-
volving hard narcotics, thirty years if the
sale is to a minor, and up to life in prison
if the transaction is part of a continuing
criminal enterprise.
These new penalties allow judges more
discretion, which we feel will restore
credibility to the drug control laws and
eliminate some of the difficulties prosecu-
tors and judges have had in the past aris-
ing out of minimum mandatory penalties
for all violators.
The penalty structure in the 1970 Drug
Act became effective on May 1 of this
year.
While it is too soon to assess its effect,
I expect it to help enable us to deter or
remove from our midst those who traffic
in narcotics and other dangerous drugs.
To complement the new Federal drug
law, a uniform State drug control law has
been drafted and recommended to the
States. Nineteen States have already
adopted it and others have it under active
consideration. Adoption of this uniform
law will facilitate joint and effective
action by all levels of government.
Although I do not presently anticipate
a necessity for alteration of the purposes
or principles of existing enforcement
statutes, there is a clear need for some
additional enforcement legislation.
To help expedite the prosecution of
narcotic trafficking cases, we are asking
the Congress to provide legislation which
would permit the United States Govern-
ment to utilize information obtained by
foreign police, provided that such infor-
mation was obtained in compliance with
the laws of that country.
We are also asking that the Congress
provide legislation which would permit a
745
