Richard Nixon, 1971
June 4 [195]
be subject to a thorough review by the in-
dependent Advisory Committee on Re-
actor Safeguards, which will publish the
results of its investigation.
I believe it important to the Nation
that the commercial demonstration of a
breeder reactor be completed by 1980. To
help achieve that goal, I am requesting an
additional $50 million in Federal funds
for the demonstration plant. We expect
industry—the utilities and manufactur-
ers-to contribute the major share of the
plant's total cost, since they have a large
and obvious stake in this new technology.
But we also recognize that only if govern-
ment and industry work closely together
can we maximize our progress in this vital
field and thus introduce a new era in the
production of energy for the people of our
land.
c. Coal Gasification
As we carry on our search for cleaner
fuels, we think immediately of the clean-
est fossil fuel-natural gas. But our re-
serves of natural gas are quite limited in
comparison with our reserves of coal.
Fortunately, however, it is technically
feasible to convert coal into a clean gas
which can be transported through pipe-
lines. The Department of the Interior has
been working with the natural gas and
coal industries on research to advance our
coal gasification efforts and a number of
possible methods for accomplishing this
conversion are under development. A few,
in fact, are now in the pilot plant stage.
We are determined to bring greater fo-
cus and urgency to this effort. We have
therefore initiated a cooperative program
with industry to expand the number of
pilot plants, making it possible to test new
methods more expeditiously so that the
appropriate technology can soon be se-
lected for a large-scale demonstration
plant.
The Federal expenditure for this co-
operative program will be expanded to
$20 million a year. Industry has agreed
to provide $10 million a year for this ef-
fort. In general, we expect that the Gov-
ernment will continue to finance the
larger share of pilot plants and that in-
dustry will finance the larger share of the
demonstration plants. But again, the
important point is that both the Govern-
ment and industry are now strongly com-
mitted to move ahead together as
promptly as possible to make coal gasifica-
tion a commercial reality.
d. Other Research and Development
Efforts
The fast breeder reactor, sulfur oxide
controls and coal gasification represent
our highest priority research and develop-
ment projects in the clean energy field.
But they are not our only efforts. Other
ongoing projects include:
-Coal Mine Health and Safety Re-
search. In response to a growing concern
for the health and safety of the men who
mine the Nation's coal and in accordance
with the Federal Coal Mine Health and
Safety Act of 1969, the Bureau of Mines
research effort has been increased from a
level of $2 million in Fiscal Year 1969 to
$30 million in Fiscal Year 1972.
--Controlled Thermonuclear Fusion
Research. For nearly two decades the
Government has been funding a sizeable
research effort designed to harness the
almost limitless energy of nuclear fusion
for peaceful purposes. Recent progress
suggests that the scientific feasibility of
such projects may be demonstrated in the
1970s and we have therefore requested an
additional $2 million to supplement the
707
