[408] Dec. 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
ganization, but there are many others as
well.
In saying that there will be a Presi-
dential commitment, in saying that there
will be a Congressional commitment, a
government commitment, I should em-
phasize that a total national commitment
means more than government. It means
all the voluntary activities must also con-
tinue. We have to realize that only one-
sixth of everything that is produced in
America is produced by what govern-
ment does. Five-sixths of what we do in
America is produced by what people do
in their voluntary and cooperative
capacities.
So, we need the continued cooperation
of all the volunteer organizations. You
will have, of course, the total commitment
of government, and that is what the sign-
ing of this bill now does.
Finally I should emphasize, as Benno
Schmidt mentioned just a moment ago,
that we would not want to raise false
hopes by simply the signing of an act,
but we can say this: That for those who
have cancer and who are looking for suc-
cess in this field, they at least can have
the assurance that everything that can be
done by government, everything that can
be done by voluntary agencies in this
great, powerful, rich country, now will be
done and that will give some hope, and
we hope those hopes will not be
disappointed.
Now, ladies and gentlemen, for those
of
you who have not participated in sign-
ing ceremonies-and that, of course, does
not include the Members of the House
and Senate who are here; I see that many
of them have been here previously—the
custom is always to sign with the Presi-
dential pen. I will use two pens for the
signature, but a souvenir pen will be
available to everybody in the audience
here. We had to stretch a little to find that
many, but we did it.
Incidentally, it is a very good pen, but
the box is worth more than the pen.
[At this point, President Nixon signed the
act. He then resumed speaking.]
Benno, you get the "Richard." Dr. Let-
ton, if you will step forward-the presi-
dent of the American Cancer Society-
you get the last name.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12 noon in the
State Dining Room at the White House.
Dr. A. Hamblin Letton's response is printed
in the Weekly Compilation of Presidential
Documents (vol. 7, p. 1711).
As enacted, the bill (S. 1828) is Public Law
92-218 (85 Stat. 778).
On the same day, the White House re-
leased an announcement of the signing and a
fact sheet on the provisions of the act.
An announcement of the appointment of
Benno C. Schmidt as Chairman of the Presi-
dent's Cancer Panel was also released on De-
cember 23, 1971, and is printed in the Weekly
Compilation of Presidential Documents (vol.
7, p. 1712).
409 Statement About the National Cancer Act of 1971.
December 23, 1971
HOPE and comfort, the relief of suffer-
ing and the affirmation of life itself-
these are qualities which have tradition-
ally been associated with the Christmas
season. There could be no more appro-
priate time than this to sign into law the
National Cancer Act of 1971. For this
legislation—perhaps more than any legis-
1206
