[63] Feb. 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
The most important advantage of
Health Maintenance Organizations is
that they increase the value of the serv-
ices a consumer receives for each health
dollar. This happens, first, because such
organizations provide a strong financial
incentive for better preventive care and
for greater efficiency.
Under traditional systems, doctors and
hospitals are paid, in effect, on a piece
work basis. The more illnesses they
treat and the more service they render-
the more their income rises. This does not
mean, of course, that they do any less than
their very best to make people well. But it
does mean that there is no economic in-
centive for them to concentrate on keep-
ing people healthy.
A fixed-price contract for comprehen-
sive care reverses this illogical incentive.
Under this arrangement, income grows
not with the number of days a person is
sick but with the number of days he is
well. HMO's therefore have a strong fi-
nancial interest in preventing illness, or,
failing that, in treating it in its early
stages, promoting a thorough recovery,
and preventing any reoccurrence. Like
doctors in ancient China, they are paid to
keep their clients healthy. For them, eco-
nomic interests work to re-enforce their
professional interests.
At the same time, HMO's are moti-
vated to function more efficiently. When
providers are paid retroactively for each
of their services, inefficiencies can often
be subsidized. Sometimes, in fact, ineffi-
ciency is rewarded-as when a patient
who does not need to be hospitalized is
treated in a hospital so that he can collect
on his insurance. On the other hand, if
an HMO is wasteful of time or talent or
facilities, it cannot pass those extra costs
on to the consumer or to an insurance
company. Its budget for the year is deter-
mined in advance by the number of its
subscribers. From that point on it is penal-
ized for going over its budget and re-
warded for staying under it.
In an HMO, in other words, cost con-
sciousness is fostered. Such an organiza-
tion cannot afford to waste resources-
that costs more money in the short run.
But neither can it afford to economize in
ways which hurt patients-for that in-
creases long-run expenses.
The HMO also organizes medical re-
sources in a way that is more convenient
for patients and more responsive to their
needs. There was a time when every
housewife had to go to a variety of shops
and markets and pushcarts to buy her
family's groceries. Then along came the
supermarket making her shopping
chores much easier and also giving her
a wider range of choice and lower prices.
The HMO provides similar advantages in
the medical field. Rather than forcing the
consumer to thread his way through a
complex maze of separate services and
specialists, it makes a full range of re-
sources available through a single orga-
nization-often at a single stop-and
makes it more likely that the right com-
bination of resources will be utilized.
Because a team can often work more
efficiently than isolated individuals, each
doctor's energies go further in a Health
Maintenance Organization-twice as far
according to some studies. At the same
time, each patient retains the freedom to
choose his own personal doctor. In addi-
tion, services can more easily be made
available at night and on weekends in an
HMO. Because many doctors often use
the same facilities and equipment and
can share the expense of medical assist-
ants and business personnel, overhead
174
