Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 9 [52]
inet Room and in the President's office.
I realize that this organization could
not exist except for the contributions and
for the work, all volunteer work, of just
thousands of people across the country.
I am deeply grateful for all that you
have done. I speak in personal terms only
because representing, as I do, the Gov-
ernment of this country, which is a gov-
ernment with many billions of dollars at
its disposal and many, many programs,
the result of those expenditures of money,
I realize that what people do in their in-
dividual capacity is what makes America
great.
What we have done for almost 200
years and we have done much in the
world, many good things for America at
home, we have become the richest coun-
try, the strongest country in the world,
with more freedom, more opportunity
than any people in the world-and what
we have been able to do in the world
where, in the wars that we have had to
fight and one that we are now bringing
to an end as far as we are concerned,
everything that we have done in the
world, that all of this has been possible
because of what the American people
have created here in this country.
But when we look at the progress of
America, how we got where we are, we,
of course, got there in great part because
of what we did as a government. But we
must never forget that the greatness of
America, and this is what really distin-
guishes this country, is primarily because
of what we have done as a people in our
individual and private capacity.
Freedoms Foundation stands for that
principle. You recognize the necessity of
strengthening freedom, strengthening it
at all levels in America. You work for
that. You reward it. You encourage it.
And because you do that, I am very
delighted to receive you, along with Mrs.
Nixon, here in the White House, to tell
you to enjoy your stay here. And even
though it has been delayed a little, I un-
derstand the coffee and the tea will be
warmed up when you get over to the
State Dining Room. I can urge you also
to try the pastries. I don't use them. That
is how I keep my figure.
But nevertheless, I hope you brought
your bowser bags because there is plenty
for those who may not use them all. And
I know that you will enjoy it.
Now I understand Bo Callaway has
something that he wants to say. And so,
Bo, you are recognized under the one
minute rule of the House.
[At this point, after making brief remarks, How-
ard H. Callaway, chairman of the board of
trustees of the Freedoms Foundation at Valley
Forge, presented the President with a gavel and
sounding board. The President then resumed
speaking.]
Thank you very much, Bo.
It is, of course, a very great honor to
have this in the collection of gavels that
I have acquired through the years be-
cause I have acquired them because I
presided over the Senate for 8 years and
every time anybody came to visit me, of
course, as a head of state or something,
he always gave me a gavel.
So I have another one now. And I was
thinking how this would do a little better
than the others. Do you think it would
work in the Senate today?
I, too, appreciate the fact, the historic
significance of the wood from which the
gavel is made and also the base is made.
And in this room in which one of the few
original paintings, a painting that is older
than this house, the painting of George
Washington appears-this one, I under-
145
