[210] June 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
just about doubled in the last 5 years,
despite the fact that social security has
gone up 25 percent in the last 2 years
alone-and it will probably go up another
5 percent-old age is still a time of great
social insecurity for too many of our citi-
zens. One out of every four older Ameri-
cans lives at or below what is called the
"poverty line" in America.
To begin to deal with this problem, we
have proposed that the Federal Govern-
ment place a floor under the income of
every senior citizen in America. We have
proposed that social security benefits for
widows be raised. We have called for a
system--and this, it seems, is extremely
important; I campaigned on it in 1968; I
support it now; I believe it is time that
we do it-we find that in social security
we are always catching up with the in-
crease in the cost of living, and that is too
late. That is why I say that we need an
automatic cost-of-living increase in social
security to make certain that monthly pay-
ments will keep up with inflation, keep up
with those which it hits so hard-older
citizens.
The fact that many older people may
no longer be active members of the labor
force does not mean that they should be
denied a fair share of our growing
productivity.
I would like to talk about another initia-
tive that, at first glance, probably doesn't
seem to have much to do with the finan-
cial problems of older people-revenue
sharing. Here, this is an initiative that
Senator Percy is supporting very, very
strongly. It is supported on a bipartisan
basis by a majority of the Members of
the Senate, a majority of the Members of
the House. I believe it is going to pass.
Let me tell you why it has a direct
relationship to the budgets of senior citi-
person who
zens, of retired people in this country.
Only through revenue sharing, where the
Federal Government shares its revenues
with the States, are we going to stop the
rise in local property taxes in this coun-
try, which is eating into the budget of
every older
person, retired
owns his own home.
I found in a meeting-and you will
remember, Mrs. Pearce, in a meeting we
had in Washington; you will remember,
Mr. Faassen-at that meeting I asked
about the various problems that older
citizens had. And the one thing that they
were unanimous on was that property
taxes, going up and up and up, was a
tremendous problem for every family
budget of older citizens, because they have
no increase in their income, and they
find those property taxes going up.
It is significant to note that of people
over 65, over 70 percent own their own
homes or their own apartments. So you
have a stake in seeing to it that those prop-
erty taxes don't continue to go up.
I had a letter from a woman in Long
Island, not yet retired. She, however, had
the problem, and she pointed it out very
interestingly. She said that she bought her
house about 5 years ago. At that time
the monthly mortgage payments were
$100 a month, which was more, really,
than she could afford out of her budget,
but it was $100 a month. She said in
the past 5 years the monthly mortgage
payments have gone up to $150 a month
because of the rise in property taxes. She
said there is a new provision, a proposal
being considered by the voters of the
county in which she lives, which will in-
crease them again. She said, "If they go
up again, I am going to have to sell my
house, because I can't afford to live in
it any longer."
778
