Richard Nixon, 1971
Dec. 2 [380]
5 percent personnel reduction. They were
about to abolish the position of Secretary
of Agriculture, I think.
But it is a real challenge being a mem-
ber of your team and knowing, as I do,
your deep concern for the welfare of our
farmers and that, as you said, something
will be done immediately.
Immediately is pretty fast, you know.
But we are going to go to work promptly
on raising farm income, on getting prices
up to a satisfactory level. As I said when
you announced the change in the Secre-
taries of Agriculture, the price of corn is
too low, and that kind of statement doesn't
leave much room for interpretation.
THE PRESIDENT. You are going to do
something about it tomorrow? [Laughter]
SECRETARY BUTZ. Mr. President, the
answer is yes, since you put it that way.
But we have a tremendous resource in the
Department of Agriculture. We have a
tremendous resource in American agricul-
ture, as you are aware.
Just yesterday you met with one of the
great resources we have in American agri-
culture, and that is our young men and
young women who man the farms and
farm homes in rural communities of
America. I am delighted that you met with
them.
Our agriculture is the real basis of afflu-
ence in America. The first law of life is
food. We produce our food in this coun-
try with only 5 percent of our working
population on the farms of America. That
releases 95 percent to make everything else
that makes life so wonderful in America.
And we give our food to the American
consumer for only 162 percent of his dis-
posable income.
No place else on the earth do people
get their food in such abundance, such
high quality, and at such low prices as in
America. It is so low, Mr. President, that
our farmers don't get paid enough for it.
I am going to be coming to you and
George Shultz from time to time, and per-
haps asking for more than you can give us,
but I am going to ask for it and I am
going to press vigorously for it.
You said you wanted an aggressive,
articulate spokesman for agriculture in the
White House, and Mr. President, you
have got him.
To me it is great to know I have some
friends in this town. It may be more
vigorous than you want, but I want to
assure you and to assure everybody in the
United States that we are going to do our
level best to achieve your stated goal that
no American ever goes to bed in this
country hungry or malnourished.
Our agriculture is productive enough
and our country is affluent enough that
that is a legitimate goal, and I think for
the first time in history we can achieve a
situation in which nobody does go to bed
hungry or malnourished.
So we want to use our agricultural
plant to produce a world where people
eat well and feel well and live well so
that we can have a generation of peace.
Thank you very much.
THE PRESIDENT. I will just add-he
needs to be not only articulate, as he is,
as he has just demonstrated, and tena-
cious, as he obviously will be, but he also
has to be a magician.
I just met with a group of farm editors
out in Chicago yesterday, and I was try-
ing to think of the right thing to say, and
I said, "I think corn prices are too low."
Then I shook hands with all the farm
editors that came through. One fellow
came through and he had his tag on-he
was a hog producer. He said, "I like low
corn prices."
1163
