Richard Nixon, 1971
Jan. 4 [6]
MR. SMITH. The kind of thing that
bothers me is the tendency towards ad-
venturism in that part of the world by the
Russians. They are manning the SAM
sites, and last summer-it wasn't widely
publicized, but eight Israeli jets were on
patrol, they ran into eight Egyptian
MIG's, there was a fight and over the
radio they heard they weren't Egyptians,
they were Russian-piloted MIG's. The
score was four Russians shot down.
But how frightfully dangerous that is.
If the Russians had been tempted to
retaliate, then it could have become ter-
ribly complicated.
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Smith, you will
remember in the last 5 minutes of our
conversation a year ago-we didn't get to
the Mideast till the last 5 minutes-but I
mentioned this very point, that the key
to peace in the Mideast is held by several
people: first, the parties involved, the
Israelis and their neighbors, primarily the
U.A.R. and Jordan; but second, the key
to peace is in the hands of the Soviet
Union, the United States, Great Britain,
France the four major powers.
If the Soviet Union does not play a
conciliatory peacemaking role, there is
no chance for peace in the Mideast. Be-
cause if the Soviet Union continues to
fuel the war arsenals of Israel's neighbors,
Israel will have no choice but to come
to the United States for us to maintain
the balance to which Mr. Sevareid re-
ferred. And we will maintain that balance.
That is why it is important at this time
that the Soviet Union and the United
States as well as Britain and France all
join together in a process of not having
additional arms and additional activities
go into that area, because that will only
mean that it produces the possibility of a
future confrontation.
This is the time to talk. Let me say one
other thing with regard to the talk. I
would hesitate to give advice to other na-
tions as they enter such delicate talks, but
I am sure of this: These talks will have
no chance for success if they are done in
a public forum. It is very important that
it be done quietly, because every time an
offer is made or a suggestion is made, it is
talked about in the parliaments of one
country or another, on the radio-you can
forget it. So if these talks can be quietly
conducted, there is a chance for success,
and in the end we want to remember that
the United States, the Soviet Union, Great
Britain, and France must all be, and I
think will be, in a position to guarantee
whatever settlement is made through the
United Nations.
CUBA AND THE SOVIET UNION
[16.] Mr. CHANCELLOR. Sir, can I take
you to Cuba?
Last October, just before we all left
with you on your European trip, one of
your aides here spoke about the potential
of a grave threat in Cuba if the Russians
introduced what apparently was a sub-
marine missile base, a tender to serve
nuclear submarines. Can you tell us what
is going on there? Apparently there is a
tender there. Will we react if the tender
services a submarine in the harbor, or
what happens? Can you tell us about
that?
THE PRESIDENT. I can tell you every-
thing that our intelligence tells us, and we
think it is very good in that area, because,
as you know, we have surveillance from
the air, which in this case is foolproof, we
believe.
First, let us look at what the under-
standing is. President Kennedy worked
17
