[75] Feb. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
The world now has community prob-
lems such as the population explosion, the
uses of the oceans and seabeds, mainte-
nance of a healthy natural environment,
control of drug abuse, deterrence of air-
plane hijackings, and cooperation in the
use of outer space.
In last year's report, and in my two
speeches to the General Assembly, I sug-
gested these problems as appropriate for
UN attention. The UN has made useful
beginnings on most of them, and marked
progress on some. These developments
are discussed in the following section of
this
report, along with the measures taken
outside the UN. These global problems
are not, of course, the exclusive property
of the UN, but it is uniquely qualified to
focus the energies and attention of the
world on them.
I want to take particular note of one
instance in which the UN did precisely
that in 1970, and on a matter of the deep-
est interest to the American people. In
October, I asked the General Assembly
to express "the world interest" in the
human rights of prisoners of war. I urged
the Assembly to press all adversaries in
the Vietnam conflict, and all other con-
flicts, to honor the Geneva Convention.
In December, the General Assembly
passed a resolution that fully met that re-
quest. This did not, of course, effect the
release of our prisoners now in North
Vietnam's hands, but it does bring to bear
on North Vietnam the full weight of
world opinion in favor of decent treat-
ment of those prisoners. And the UN Res-
olution specifically
specifically called for the
repatriation of seriously ill or wounded
prisoners, and of all prisoners who have
endured a long period of captivity. The
American people, I am sure, share my
gratitude to the eleven states who stood
with us in sponsoring this resolution, and
the fifty-five others whose support led to
its passage.
THE FUTURE
In the 1970's, the United Nations faces
both a challenge and an opportunity. For
the member states there is a challenge to
prove themselves capable of using the UN
framework to meet the common needs of
the international community. For the UN
itself, there is an opportunity to mold itself
into the efficient instrument for interna-
tional cooperation which the times
require.
The United States will try to meet the
challenge, and to help the UN seize its
opportunity.
GLOBAL CHALLENGES-THE NEW
DIMENSION IN FOREIGN AFFAIRS
"Across this planet let us attack the ills
that threaten peace.
"In the untapped oceans of water and
space, let us harvest in peace."
Address to the United Nations
General Assembly
October 23, 1970
It was a poet who expressed the pro-
found political truth that the world has
become a frail spaceship and that the
people of the earth are its passengers. The
technology which inspired that concept
has also brought with it a degree of global
interdependence which differs from the
past not only in degree but in kind.
For our progress mocks us. The more
we have succeeded in controlling our en-
vironment, the more our environment
needs to be controlled. The more means
we have devised to improve the quality of
330
