[236] July 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
behalf, I express our deepest sympathy to
President Tubman's family and to all
Liberians.
NOTE: President Tubman, 75, died in London,
England, of complications resulting from sur-
gery. He had served as President of Liberia
since 1943.
The statement was posted for the press.
On July 26, 1971, the White House an-
nounced that Robert H. Finch, Counsellor to
the President, would represent President Nixon
at funeral services for President Tubman.
237
Statement About Legislation To Provide Emergency
Loan Guarantees for Major Business
Enterprises. July 24, 1971
I FULLY SUPPORT the legislation now
before both Houses of Congress to provide
emergency loan guarantees for major
business enterprises confronted with
temporary financial stringencies.
The Administration originally sought
legislation only to help the Lockheed Air-
craft Corporation. That support is still
needed very badly. But I have instructed
Secretary of the Treasury Connally, in
behalf of the Administration, to accept the
broader legislation. It would be most use-
ful in providing a systematic procedure
for helping any major business enterprise
with temporary financial problems whose
failure would adversely affect the econ-
omy of the Nation or a region thereof.
I urge Congress to enact this legislation
with all deliberate speed, and, in any
event, before the August recess.
NOTE: The legislation was introduced as H.R.
8432 and S. 2308.
238 Statement Following the Successful Launch
of Apollo 15. July 26, 1971
APOLLO 15 is safely on its way to the
moon, and man is on his way to another
step across the threshold of the heavens.
Man has always viewed the heavens
with humility. But he has viewed them as
well with curiosity and with courage and
these defy natural law, drawing man be-
yond gravity, beyond his fears, into his
dreams and on to his destiny.
The flight of Apollo 15 is the most am-
bitious exploration yet undertaken in
space. Even as it reflects man's restless
quest for his own future, so it also reenacts
another of the "deeper rituals of his
bones"-not only the compulsion of the
human spirit to know where we are going
but the primal need in man's blood to
know from what we have come.
We hope, hy this journey, to know bet-
ter the origins of earth, the moon, and the
other planets. We hope to understand
something more of the mysteries of God's
great work. And, in this seeking, we hope
to understand more of man himself.
I
To the men of Apollo 15, for all men,
say Godspeed.
NOTE: On July 25, 1971, the President tele-
phoned the Apollo 15 astronauts to extend
good wishes on the eve of the launch.
On July 30, the President telephoned con-
gratulations to the ground and flight crews of
Apollo 15 following the moon landing.
826
