[275] Aug. 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
recognized, and particularly should be
recognized by the President of the United
States.
Reference was made by the Mayor ยน
in his remarks that in 1953 he got an auto-
graph from me. At that time I had just
become Vice President of the United
States. And that same year, 1953, 18 years
ago, I really learned what the people who
have built Loma Linda University, what
the Seventh Day Adventists, do, not only
in America, because I visited Loma Linda
University-it was then Loma Linda Col-
lege, as I recall, in 1950-but I learned
what they are doing in the world, be-
cause in that year, 1953, Mrs. Nixon and
I took a trip clear around the world.
As we visited the countries of South-
east Asia and Southern Asia, we saw
several hospitals run by various organiza-
tions. The most impressive ones were the
ones run by the Seventh Day Adventists,
people who were dedicated. There were
doctors, there were nurses, there were
others who were giving their lives for the
purpose of helping those people in those
poor countries develop a better system of
medicine.
As I think of the desire all of us have
to have a world of peace in which people
of the world can work together and live
together, rather than to fight each other,
I think of nothing that does more to make
friends for America abroad than that kind
of selfless service by people like those from
Loma Linda who have gone out through
the world, as they have gone out.
Now a word as to what this hospital
will mean. First, to the veterans it means
better care, because this will be a great
'Douglas F. Welebir was mayor of Loma
Linda.
hospital, I can assure you. A hospital is
not just a magnificent building like this
splendid building, but what really counts
in a hospital is the dedication of the
doctors and the nurses and the others.
And I can assure you this hospital will
have the most dedicated doctors, nurses,
and personnel we can possibly find, and
our veterans will benefit from that.
The second thing I think is important
to note is that all the community, all the
Nation will benefit, because as Don John-
son, our Veterans Administrator, has
often pointed out, and as he was telling
me coming out on the plane from Dallas
the other day, the work that is done in
veterans hospitals makes breakthroughs
that benefit all the country. For example,
the treatment of so-called tropical dis-
eases-breakthroughs have been made
already as a result of the work that has
been done in the very difficult war in
which we are presently engaged that we
didn't think was possible even in World
War II, and more will come.
So we see this hospital benefiting, as
it should, first the veterans and providing
better care for them, but beyond that,
providing a basis for training for doctors,
nurses, and others, and the basis for re-
search which will improve the health of
all the country; and then beyond that, as
I have indicated, contributing to better
health for all the people of the world.
So I am sure you can understand why
all of us at this very moment, as we make
this announcement, can realize that this
is an announcement that everybody can
support. Without regard to party, we are
all for good health. Without regard to
party, we are all for better relations be-
tween nations. Without regard to party,
thinking as Americans, we want to do
916
