Richard Nixon, 1971
Mar. 2 [84]
than thirty bilingual "citizen forums" in
high-crime areas.
LEAA has launched the first major
Federal research and development pro-
gram in criminal justice. It has initiated
the first nationwide computerized infor-
mation system--Project SEARCH, which
will help provide instant interstate infor-
mation on offenders. It has funded the
first national survey of crime victims, and
the first national jail survey. In the six
New England States a joint program is
under way to collect and analyze intelli-
gence information and plan a coordinated
effort against organized crime in that
area. This was funded by LEAA. LEAA
assistance to the States for corrections has
increased from $3 million in fiscal 1969
to over $68 million in fiscal 1970. This
final year the total exceeds $100 million.
In another area LEAA has initiated the
first major Federal program to enable law
enforcement and criminal justice person-
nel to continue their educations. More
than nine hundred colleges are involved
in this program.
I think it is clear that LEAA has as-
sumed a vital and effective role in this
area of Federal, State and local concern.
But, I believe it can and must be made
more effective. Therefore, I am proposing
amendments to the Law Enforcement As-
sistance legislation which I believe would
strengthen and increase its effectiveness
in the war on crime by increasing both
the resources of State and local enforce-
ment and judicial agencies, as well as their
freedom to use the resources at their
disposal.
MATCHING FUNDS
I propose that the requirement for
matching funds be eliminated from LEAA
grants being converted to Special Reve-
nue Sharing.
MAINTENANCE of Effort
I propose that requirements for main-
tenance of effort be eliminated as a
condition for receiving Special Revenue
Sharing payments.
PRIOR PROJECT APPROVAL
I am recommending that State plan-
ning agencies continue to prepare compre-
hensive statewide law enforcement plans.
These will continue to be submitted to
LEAA for review and evaluation, to assist
LEAA in its role of counseling State and
local government agencies. I am propos-
ing, however, that requirements for prior
approval of these plans by LEAA be elim-
inated. Prior approval would not be re-
quired to receive Special Revenue Sharing
funds.
COVERAGE
Special Revenue Sharing would re-
place the present LEAA action grants and
their payment would be automatic. Spe-
cial Revenue Sharing for law enforcement
for the first full year would be $500 mil-
lion. Fifteen percent of this would be in
grants which can be awarded at the dis-
cretion of LEAA, and the remainder in
grants awarded automatically on the basis
of population.
CIVIL RIGHTS
I urge that the protection from dis-
crimination now provided minorities un-
der Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of
1964 be expressly extended to Special
Revenue Sharing.
377
