[43] Feb. 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
aid. These programs have not provided an
effective answer to State and local prob-
lems; to the contrary, they provide strong
additional evidence that a new program
of unrestricted aid is badly needed.
The major difficulty is that States and
localities are not free to spend these funds
on their own needs as they see them. The
money is spent instead for the things
Washington wants and in the way Wash-
ington orders. Because the categories for
which the money is given are often
extremely narrow, it is difficult to adjust
spending to local requirements. And be-
cause these categories are extremely
resistant to change, large sums are often
spent on outdated projects. Pressing needs
often go unmet, therefore, while count-
less dollars are wasted on low priority
expenditures.
This system of categorical grants has
grown up over the years in a piecemeal
fashion, with little concern for how each
new program would fit in with existing old
ones. The result has been a great deal of
overlap and very little coordination. A
dozen or more manpower programs, for
example, may exist side by side in the same
urban neighborhood-each one separately
funded and separately managed.
All of these problems are compounded
by the frequent requirement that Federal
dollars must be matched by State and local
money. This requirement often has a
major distorting effect on State and local
budgets. It guarantees that many Federal
errors will be reproduced at the State and
local level. And it leaves hard pressed
governments at the lower levels with even
less money to finance their own priorities.
The administrative burdens associated
with Federal grants can also be prohibi-
tive. The application process alone can in-
volve volumes of paperwork and delays of
many months. There are so many of these
programs that they have to be listed in
large catalogs and there are so many cata-
logs that a special catalog of catalogs had
to be published. The guidelines which are
attached to these grants are so compli-
cated that the government has had to issue
special guidelines on how the guidelines
should be interpreted. The result of all
this has been described by the Advisory
Commission on Intergovernmental Rela-
tions as "managerial apoplexy" on the
State and local level.
Meanwhile, the individual human be-
ing, that single person who ultimately is
what government is all about, has gotten
lost in the shuffle.
State and local governments need Fed-
eral help, but what they need most is not
more help of the sort they have often
been receiving. They need more money to
spend, but they also need greater freedom
in spending it.
A NEW APPROACH
In the dark days just after the Battle
of Britain, Winston Churchill said to the
American people: "Give us the tools and
we will finish the job."
I now propose that we give our States
and our cities, our towns and our coun-
ties the tools-so that they can get on with
the job.
I propose that the Federal Govern-
ment make a $16 billion investment in
State and local government through two
far-reaching revenue sharing programs:
a $5 billion program of General Revenue
Sharing which I am describing in detail in
this message to the Congress, and an $11
billion program of Special Revenue Shar-
ing grants which will be spelled out in a
series of subsequent messages.
116
