[364] Nov. 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
Compensation Act. The Congress has not
yet acted in that matter.
We have given the American worker
the first comprehensive job safety and
health legislation in this Nation's history.
This is a solid record. We intend to build
on it.
We have pushed through the Congress
the most extensive improvement in un-
employment compensation in the history
of this program. These reforms, which I
signed in August 1970, added nearly 5
million workers to the unemployment in-
surance system. They increased minimum
benefit levels, and they provide for an
extended period of eligibility whenever a
percentage of workers covered are unem-
ployed for an extended period of time.
This is a solid achievement of value to
the American worker.
I know, however, that the American
worker doesn't want compensation, he
wants work. In order to provide increased
employment, I reorganized the Man-
power Administration in the Department
of Labor and signed into law the Emer-
gency Employment Act in July 1971. This
legislation provides funding for a hun-
dred and twenty-five thousand jobs. That
figure alone speaks for the merit of this
legislation and its value to the worker.
In other areas, we have taken very
strong steps to cope with the problem of
seasonality in the construction business
using the vast potential in Federal con-
struction needs to stabilize this industry,
to provide year-round income, and so to
eliminate the inflationary labor costs that
were necessary to enable construction
workers to survive in off-season downtime.
This Administration has provided a
much more definitive basis for Federal
employee representation rights and for
grievance and dispute-settling mecha-
nisms. At the same time, it is fair and ac-
curate to say that we have interfered less
in collective bargaining than any Admin-
istration in the last 10 years.
These are just some of the steps we
have taken to compile a positive record of
achievement on behalf of American labor.
They demonstrate that we have more in
common in terms of goals for the Ameri-
can workingman than we have in conflict.
We are moving in a positive way, and
I know there is far more to be done before
we can feel fully confident that the cir-
cumstances of the American worker today
are what they ought to be in a Nation.
with our economic capacities and our so-
cial standards.
I am concerned, for example, by the
injustices which American workers suffer
through the loss of pension benefits for
which they have contributed money
throughout their work lives. It is unfair
that men and women should move toward
retirement, work to protect their retire-
ment, and then have that protection
stripped away. This inequity must and
will be remedied.
It is not reasonable or responsible to
make national policy in a way that sees
the American labor force as somehow dis-
tinct from the larger American society. It
is an integral part of that society, and in
all policy formulation it must be treated
as an integral part of that society.
I
In August, as the first step in the imple-
mentation of a new economic program,
directed a wage-price freeze aimed at halt-
ing the dangerous inflationary pressures
which were threatening the dollar—and I
mean everybody's dollar-the laborer's,
the businessman's, the banker's, and the
international dollar. The freeze was not
directed against labor; it did not affect
labor alone, it affected all segments of the
1126
