[231] July 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
the two countries and also to exchange
views on questions of concern to the
two sides.
In anticipation of the inevitable specu-
lation which will follow this announce-
ment, I want to put our policy in the
clearest possible context.
Our action in seeking a new relation-
ship with the People's Republic of China
will not be at the expense of our old
friends. It is not directed against any
other nation. We seek friendly relations
with all nations. Any nation can be our
friend without being any other nation's
enemy.
I have taken this action because of my
profound conviction that all nations will
gain from a reduction of tensions and a
better relationship between the United
States and the People's Republic of China.
It is in this spirit that I will undertake
what I deeply hope will become a journey
for peace, peace not just for our genera-
tion but for future generations on this
earth we share together.
Thank you and good night.
NOTE: The President's remarks were broad-
cast live on radio and television at 7:31 p.m.
from the NBC studios, Burbank, Calif.
232 Letter to the Chairman of the Senate Committee on
Commerce About Pending Product Safety
Legislation. July 19, 1971
Dear Mr. Chairman:
In my Consumer Message of Febru-
ary 24, I proposed comprehensive product
safety legislation authorizing the Depart-
ment of Health, Education, and Welfare
to regulate hazardous consumer products.
Subsequently S. 1797, a bill incorporat-
ing this proposal, was introduced on be-
half of the Administration and referred
to your Committee.
As part of the preparation of this bill,
I asked Secretary Richardson to under-
take a careful study of the organizational
structure within the Department of
Health, Education, and Welfare that
would most effectively implement the con-
sumer product safety authority proposed
in S. 1797.
Today, Secretary Richardson will an-
nounce, with my approval, that upon en-
actment of this bill, he will create within.
the Department of Health, Education,
and Welfare a new Consumer Safety Ad-
ministration. This unit will build upon the
activities, personnel and facilities of the
Food and Drug Administration, which has
a long and distinguished history in the
field of consumer safety, primarily in the
vital regulation of the foods we eat and
the drugs we use.
The Consumer Safety Administration
will continue the work of the Food and
Drug Administration. At the same time,
the new unit will be structured so that
the regulation of hazardous consumer
products authorized in S. 1797 will have
the facilities, the personnel, and the or-
ganizational prominence that will ensure
an effective, efficient and responsive prod-
uct safety program. Finally, where pos-
sible, common facilities such as
laboratories and field offices will be uti-
820
