Richard Nixon, 1971
Mar. 4 [86]
would make government more responsive
to legitimate demands for quality services.
To enhance public accountability for
manpower programs, State and local gov-
ernments would be required to publish a
statement of program objectives and pro-
jected uses of funds each year, prior to
receiving their shared revenues. These
statements would include information on
the area's economic and labor market
conditions; targeted client groups; pro-
posed activities; wages, allowances and
other benefits; manpower agencies in-
volved; and the positions and salaries of
the program's administrators. In addition,
the statements would review the previous
year's programs.
Both State and local governments
would be required to publish comments
about each other's program statements. In
particular, they would be responsible for
coordinating and making full use of all
other State and local manpower activities
available. After full public disclosure and
discussion they would be required to pub-
lish their final program statements for the
coming year.
To increase the information available
to the public, the Labor Department
would publish evaluations of program
effectiveness.
The people would have the hard facts
needed to hold their public officials di-
rectly and readily accountable for the
manner in which manpower programs are
administered.
PROGRAMS AND PURPOSES
Manpower Revenue Sharing is a part-
nership. Washington puts up the purse
and sets out the broad purposes of author-
ized spending, while program decisions are
turned over to the statehouses, county
governments and city halls. My proposal
neither mandates nor terminates any pro-
grams. It provides that the continuation,
expansion, or modification of each pro-
gram would be determined, as it ought to
be, by the test of performance alone—and
determined by the State or community
which the program serves. Programs that
have proved themselves in practice could
be continued with the use of the Federal
funds provided. Indeed many current cat-
egorical programs probably would con-
tinue and expand in response to local
needs once arbitrary Federal restrictions
were removed. On the other hand, pro-
grams whose past claims of effectiveness
are not justified by the record deserve to
be replaced by others more responsive to
community needs. Vesting the program
authority in governments close to the peo-
ple will make it harder for programs to
coast along on their momentum from year
to year, and easier to tailor manpower as-
sistance to on-the-scene realities.
THE FEDERAL ROLE
The special activities financed by the
15 percent of manpower funds retained
for use by the Secretary of Labor would
include support and assistance for State
and local programs through staff training
and technical aid, through research, and
through experimental and demonstration
programs to develop new manpower
techniques.
The Department of Labor would also
maintain a comprehensive system of labor
market information and computerized job
banks to facilitate exchange of informa-
tion among
different areas. It would moni-
tor State and local programs for fiscal
accountability and compile comparative
data on all programs to help the Congress
and the public assess their effectiveness.
In addition, the Labor Department
383
