[303] Sept. 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
altered. That commitment we have kept
in the past; that commitment we will keep
in the future with regard to Israel. Israel
knows it, and Israel's neighbors know it.
But, on the other hand, while at the
same time we keep the commitment, and
we will keep it in this general context of
seeing that the balance does not shift-
and we watch it closely week by week, I
can assure you—at the same time we are,
of course, trying to influence the negoti-
ations along the line of pointing up that
simply maintaining the balance of power
is not a policy that can survive; it is not
viable because in the end it will blow, and
that is why we are pushing for a perma-
nent settlement.
MEETING WITH PREMIER KOSYGIN?
[14] Q. Premier Kosygin will be in
Canada next month. There is some talk
that he will go on down to New York dur-
ing that same trip. Is it possible that you
will meet with him on that occasion?
THE PRESIDENT. I do have plans to
meet with Mr. Gromyko next week, the
Soviet Foreign Minister, but I have no
plans to meet with Mr. Kosygin on his
visit to the United States, if he makes
such a visit, and I think that is still in a
speculative position.
SOUTH VIETNAMESE ELECTIONS
[15] Q. Mr. President, will the pos-
ture of the unopposed ballot in Vietnam
have effect on your winding down the
any
war? Will it speed it up at all?
THE PRESIDENT. With regard to the
unopposed ballot, we, as I have stated
on other occasions, would prefer that
Vietnam could have an election in which
there was a contest. We, of course, noted
with approval the fact that the parlia-
mentary elections were very, very vigor-
ously contested, and that over one-third
of the Parliament in the National Assem-
bly were elected in what most observers
agreed was a very fair, impartial election.
Over one-third of them were members of
the parties opposing President Thieu,
which indicates there was a very active
opposition.
It is also to be noted that in the Senate
of South Vietnam there is a very active
opposition which is able to assert itself.
We, however, cannot get people to run for
office unless they are willing to run, and
under these circumstances, therefore, the
problem which confronts us is whether,
because South Vietnam has elections but
has not yet had elections which we con-
sider to be satisfactory in terms of our
standards, whether under those circum-
stances we, in effect, throw up our hands
and say that it makes no difference what
happens, let the Communists take it over.
The choice, quite frankly, is not be-
tween a South Vietnam and perfect elec-
tions, or elections meeting our standard,
but the choice is between South Vietnam
and no elections, which is what would be
the case if the Communists were to come
in.
So, as far as our plan is concerned, I
would simply summarize it this way: Our
plan for ending the American involvement
in Vietnam is proceeding. I will have
another announcement to make in No-
vember with regard to that plan. It is sig-
nificant to note that over 300,000 Ameri-
cans have come out of Vietnam. It is
significant to note that as far as our cas-
ualties are concerned, the casualties for
the entire summer were not as great as
994
