Richard Nixon, 1971
[224]
July 7
that that I would suggest to the editors
and the other opinionmakers here: that
from time to time, maybe once a month,
that message might come through.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:56 p.m. in the
Holiday Inn.
On the same day, the White House released
a list of participants at the briefing.
223 Statement on the Death of Louis Armstrong.
July 6, 1971
MRS. NIXON and I share the sorrow of
millions of Americans at the death of
Louis Armstrong. One of the architects
of an American art form, a free and in-
dividual spirit, and an artist of worldwide
fame, his great talents and magnificent
spirit added richness and pleasure to all
our lives.
NOTE: Mr. Armstrong, 71, died of a heart
attack in his home in Corona, Queens, N.Y.
He achieved worldwide fame as a jazz musi-
cian and trumpet player.
The statement was made available to the
press on board Air Force One en route to San
Clemente, Calif.
On July 9, 1971, Leonard Garment, Special
Consultant to the President, represented the
President at funeral services in New York City.
224 Statement Following Senate Approval of the Conquest
of Cancer Bill. July 7, 1971
THE SENATE deserves the thanks of all
Americans for its prompt bipartisan ac-
tion today in passing the conquest of can-
cer act introduced by Senator Dominick
and cosponsored by 67 Senators of both
parties. This measure represents an im-
portant part of the "total national com-
mitment" to an intensive campaign to
find a cure for cancer that I called for in
my State of the Union Message and in
my special message to the Congress on a
national health strategy. Another essen-
tial part of that commitment was the
additional $100 million I asked for cancer
research. The Congress has already met
that request, and I signed the bill on
May 25.
But money alone will not be enough.
The way we organize our work in this
field is also extremely important. It was
for that reason that on May 11, I pro-
posed legislation to establish the cancer
cure program that would be independ-
ently budgeted, with its Director respon-
sible directly to the President.
Now that the Senate has acted on this
program, I urge prompt agreement by
the House of Representatives so that we
can swiftly lengthen our strides against
the dreaded ravages of cancer, bringing
new hope to all Americans-and indeed
bringing new hope to the world.
NOTE: The statement was released at San
Clemente, Calif.
813
