[275] Aug. 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
better environment, that will mean oppor-
tunity and freedom and justice such as
people have never enjoyed in the history
of the world.
This is a great ideal, and speaking to
my friends here in my home State of
California, I cherish this opportunity to
share those ideals with you.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:02 p.m. on the
university campus.
276 Statement About Plans for a New Veterans
Administration Hospital and Transfer of the
Former Hospital Site to the "Legacy of
Parks" Program. August 20, 1971
TODAY I am pleased to announce a
decision which will advance two im-
portant goals of this Administration: (1)
the improvement of the medical care pro-
vided to the Nation's veterans; and (2)
the improvement of our parks and rec-
reational facilities.
These two goals may seem at first to be
unrelated. In fact, however, they are
closely tied together. For, in deciding to
build a new medical facility to replace an
old one, we at the same time are able to
make the site on which the old facility
was located available for other purposes.
We have decided to replace the 521-bed
hospital at San Fernando which was de-
stroyed by an earthquake earlier this year.
The new replacement hospital will con-
tain 630 beds and will cost $28.9 million.
It will be located at Loma Linda-where
VA treatment will be more accessible to
veterans in the rapidly growing area
around Riverside and San Bernardino.
This new hospital will be closely affili-
ated with the Loma Linda Medical
School, an affiliation which holds great
promise for future improvements in medi-
cal care for veterans. The Loma Linda
Medical School is noted for the high
quality of its medical training, for its
strong support of overseas medical mis-
sions, and for its deep dedication to com-
munity service. We believe that both the
school and the hospital will benefit from
that close, sharing relationship which has
fostered so much medical progress in
other areas. This decision is consistent
with our continuing desire to improve the
Nation's health through a strong partner-
ship between public and private
institutions.
As an outgrowth of this decision, I have
also asked the Administrator of Veterans
Affairs to declare the 94-acre site on which
the San Fernando hospital was formerly
located to be excess to the needs of the
Federal Government. It is my hope that
this wooded and beautifully landscaped
tract will be devoted to recreational pur-
poses, in keeping with our commitment to
create a "Legacy of Parks" for future
generations.
This decision grows out of a careful
review which has been conducted by the
Administrator of Veterans Affairs and
other Government officials. What this
action demonstrates, in my judgment, is
that we can foster social progress-with
all the building and modernization that
implies and at the same time enhance
918
