[378] Dec. I
Public Papers of the Presidents
late about political, economic, and social
systems that would set the human spirit
free, but we can fashion such systems, and
we are.
We can do these things, but now so
much depends, really, on you—you who
are so young, so full of idealism, with all
those years ahead. How committed will
you be?
Listen to Thoreau. He wrote, “Cast
your whole vote, not a strip of paper
merely, but your whole influence." You
have the freedom, almost literally, to
reach the stars, and with it comes the re-
sponsibility to stretch for them with all
your might. Don't let your hearts grow
earthbound, for the universe is out there
waiting for you.
In the spring of 1968, when the first
sweet taste of freedom came to Com-
munist Czechoslovakia, a group of stu-
dents marched to party headquarters at
midnight and shouted for the reform
leader, Alexander Dubcek, to confront
them. They were impetuous and im-
patient-full of that young fire which our
Youth Conference delegates called "the
rage of love for . . . unimplemented
principles . . . and . . . unfulfilled poten-
tial." Dubcek came down in the street to
talk to the students, and one of them
asked, "What are the guarantees that the
old days will not be back?" He replied,
"You, yourselves, are that guarantee; you,
the young."
You know the rest of the story. The
hopes of the Czechs for freedom met rever-
sals, but the words of Dubcek are not less
true for that. Here in America "the rage
of love" has not burned out in young
hearts. The flame is purer now, fed with
new reason and realism.
Man's destiny of freedom is in your
keeping; it is in your guarantee. And
with a lifetime of adventure and promise
before you, I have every confidence that
that splendid destiny of America is in good
keeping and you will make good its
guarantee.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:05 p.m. in the
Conrad Hilton Hotel to the 50th national con-
gress of the 4-H, which was sponsored by the
National 4-H Service Committee.
The President, as honorary chairman of the
National 4-H Service Committee, presented
4-H Presidential awards for achievement, citi-
zenship, and leadership to Neal Nygard of
Minot, N. Dak., Rachel Koontz of Fort Wayne,
Ind., Deborah Bell of Sylvania, Ga., Willie
Johnson of Chicago, Ill., Leland D. Jordan, Jr.,
of Shelbyville, Tenn., and Linda Miller of
Morris, Okla.
Blaine J. Yarrington was chairman of the
board of trustees of the National 4-H Service
Committee.
An advance text of the President's remarks
was released on the same day.
379 Remarks to the White House Conference on Aging.
December 2, 1971
Dr. Flemming, Chief Justice Warren, all
of the distinguished guests on the plat-
form, and all of the distinguished dele-
gates to this Conference:
First, I want you to know how very
delighted we were to have you-2,700,
I
understand-as guests last night at the
White House. As I came in by helicopter
from Chicago, after speaking to the 4-H
convention there, I saw many in the
windows looking out. I only wished I could
have come down, but I realized if I shook
1152
