Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 2 [39]
sons--now about 7,000 in all-serving in
executive branch positions presently es-
tablished at grades GS-16, 17, and 18, or
within the same pay range under several
other salary systems. It is designed to meet
the special needs of managing the Fed-
eral establishment, and at the same time
to preserve and strengthen merit
principles.
In order to accomplish these purposes,
the legislation I am proposing would:
-Abolish the present so-called super-
grade system and establish the Fed-
eral Executive Service, to include
both career and non-career officials.
Preserving the present ratio, it would
establish a minimum of 75 percent
career appointments and a maxi-
mum of 25 percent non-career
appointments.
-Establish a general salary range
(from about $28,000 to the equiv-
alent of level V, now $36,000),
within which the agency head can set
the salary of each individual mem-
ber, provided that he maintains an
average salary for all members of the
Federal Executive Service employed
by his
agency as established annually
by the Civil Service Commission
after collaboration with the Office of
Management and Budget.
-Require the appointment of Quali-
fications Boards to pass on the eligi-
bility, under merit standards, of all
persons selected for future entry into
the Federal Executive Service as
career members. Holders of present
supergrade positions and persons
chosen for non-career appointment to
the Federal Executive Service would
be exempt from this requirement.
-Provide that new entrants into the
career system be employed under re-
newable three-year agreements, and
give present holders of career type
supergrade executive positions the
choice of entering the new Serv-
ice under the renewable three-year
agreements or retaining their present
positions and salaries.
-In the case of a career Federal ex-
ecutive whose employment agree-
ment expires without being extended
(whether because renewal was not
offered by the agency, or because the
executive chose not to accept the
renewal offered), the legislation
would provide for either severance
pay, retirement, or reversion to the
top grade of the Classification Act
(GS-15) without reduction in pay
from his previous level for a period
of two years.
-Provide for the Civil Service Com-
mission, after collaboration with the
Office of Management and Budget,
to establish annually maximum num-
bers and average salary for members
of the Federal Executive Service in
each agency, taking into account pro-
gram priorities, level of work, work
load, and budget allowances for the
agency concerned.
To assure proper, periodic Congres-
sional review of the operation of the Fed-
eral Executive Service the proposed legis-
lation would also require the Civil Service
Commission to make an annual report
to the Congress on April 1, detailing
the number of Federal Executive Service
members it proposes to allow each agency
for the coming year and the average salary
level it proposes to set for each agency.
At the same time, the Commission would
report any variances it had allowed dur-
ing the previous year under its statutory
authority to meet emergency needs or
105
