[86] Mar. 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
I
ance expands as the Nation grows, the
Act would set no ceiling on future
appropriations.
Of this amount provided, 85 percent
would be distributed to the States and to
cities and counties with a population of
100,000 or more. Since jobs and workers
cross city and county lines, bonus funds
within the formula distribution would be
awarded to consortia of local governments
which embrace entire major labor mar-
ket areas. Governments which can agree
to act in concert in smaller urban areas
would also qualify for funds. The remain-
ing 15 percent would be made available
to the Secretary of Labor to fund special
activities.
The shared revenues would be allo-
cated by statutory formula. Each State
or local area's share would be determined
by its proportionate number of workers,
unemployed persons and low income
adults.
WHAT ARE MANPOWER PROGRAMS?
Manpower programs develop job skills.
They help the unemployed and under-
employed, particularly welfare recipients
and other disadvantaged persons, make
the transition to better jobs, better pay
and higher skill levels.
An effective program focuses on indi-
vidual needs and available jobs. It
embraces a wide range of manpower activ-
ities, providing combinations of services
to move people toward their employment
goals. Authorized manpower activities
nclude:
-recruitment,
counseling, testing,
placement, and follow-up services;
-classroom instruction in both reme-
dial education and occupational
skills;
-training on the job with both public
and private employers, aided by man-
power subsidies;
-job opportunities, including work ex-
perience and short-term employment
for special age groups and the tem-
porary unemployed, and transitional
public service employment at all
levels of government;
-ancillary services like child care as-
sistance, relocation assistance, and
minor health services.
Decisions on the mix and specifics of
State and local activities under this broad
umbrella would be up to each govern-
ment. However, payments and allowances
for individuals would be limited to two
consecutive years, in recognition of the
fact that these manpower programs are
designed not to provide long-term public
support but rather to assist job seekers in
making the transition to permanent or
better jobs.
NEW FLEXIBILITY AND ACCOUNTABILITY
In keeping with the principles of Spe-
cial Revenue Sharing, State and local gov-
ernments would be given wide discretion
in determining how the funds provided
should be used.
This manpower program, unlike its
predecessors, would have no exhaustive
volumes of Federal standards to be met.
There would be no towering piles of Fed-
eral program applications to complete and
no frustrating delays at the Federal level.
State and local money now tied down
by matching requirements and mainte-
nance of effort would be freed for spend-
ing elsewhere as community priorities
might dictate.
Giving State and local officials full
power to spend Federal manpower funds
would sharply increase the citizen's ability
to influence how the funds are spent. It
382
