[250] Aug. 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
months. But we all know these month-to-
month variations are not what count. My
view is that we are making progress
against inflation, but it is going to require
continued strong policies on the part of
the Administration with the cooperation
of the Congress in limiting our budget ex-
penditures to full capacity or full employ-
ment revenues. That is the battle we will
continue to wage, and it will also need
cooperation from labor and management
in limiting the wage-price spiral.
On the unemployment front, we have
a somewhat similar problem, as I pointed
out a minute ago. The last 3 peacetime
years before the Vietnam war expendi-
tures began to hypo the economy were
1961, '62, and '63. Unemployment in
those years averaged 6 percent. We, at
this point, have brought unemployment
below 6 percent, not as much as we would
like. It reached its peak in January. It
was 6.2. What the figures will be for
this month you will know on Friday. I
don't know what they are myself. I will
read them as you do and that is the way
it should be with the BLS [Bureau of
Labor Statistics] figures.
But in any event, the unemployment
curve is down; 6.2 was the high; we are
now below 6 percent. I believe that it will
continue, with monthly aberrations, on a
downward course through the balance of
the year.
I believe that as we go into 1972, I still
stick with my prediction that we shall see
unemployment continue to move down-
ward and that 1972, for that year, will be
a very good year.
I would point out one final thing on
the unemployment facts, as I have often
pointed out: As of this morning-I looked
at the numbers-over 2 million Ameri-
cans have been let out of the armed serv-
ices and out of defense plants since we
started to wind down the war in Vietnam.
If they were in the services or in the
defense plants at the present time, unem-
ployment would be 4.3. But the other
side of that coin is that casualties when
we came in were 300 a week. This week,
last week, they were 12.
I just think the price is too high to pay.
We believe that our goal of a new pros-
perity, of low unemployment, but with
peace and not at the cost of war, is one
that Americans are willing to work
toward.
We are going to achieve that goal. Get-
ting back to our stock market question, I
will simply say this: Everybody else has
been prophetic about the future. I think
the prophets who presently say that the
American economy is on the skids, that
we have made no progress on inflation,
that the economy is not moving up, who
ignore the $52 billion increase in GNP,
who ignore the increase in retail sales,
who ignore the strong, positive elements
in the economy, I think by the end of this
year that they are going to look bad so I
will go out on the limb to that effect, but
by the end of this year I might look bad.
Let's just hope that they do rather than
myself, because all of us are involved.
CASUALTIES IN VIETNAM
[14.] Q. On the casualties, Mr. Presi-
dent, do you think that the figures of 12
per week and so forth in that category,
are they an aberration or does your policy
envision them to continue to decline dur-
ing this year?
THE PRESIDENT. No, they are not an
aberration. They are the result, frankly,
of first an American withdrawal. Ameri-
can forces in Vietnam today, as you car
860
