[203] June 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
chemist to submit written findings of his
analysis in drug cases. This would speed
the process of criminal justice.
The problems of addict identification
are equalled and surpassed by the prob-
lem of drug identification. To expedite
work in this area of narcotics enforce-
ment, I am asking the Congress to pro-
vide $2 million to be allotted to the
research and development of equipment
and techniques for the detection of illegal
drugs and drug traffic.
I am asking the Congress to provide
$2 million to the Department of Agri-
culture for research and development of
herbicides which can be used to destroy
growths of narcotics-producing plants
without adverse ecological effects.
I am asking the Congress to authorize
and fund 325 additional positions within
the Bureau of Narcotics and Dangerous
Drugs to increase their capacity for ap-
prehending those engaged in narcotics
trafficking here and abroad and to inves-
tigate domestic industrial producers of
drugs.
Finally, I am asking the Congress to
provide a supplemental appropriation of
$25.6 million for the Treasury Depart-
ment. This will increase funds available
to this Department for drug abuse control
to nearly $45 million. Of this sum, $18.1
million would be used to enable the Bu-
reau of Customs to develop the technical
capacity to deal with smuggling by air and
sea, to increase the investigative staff
charged with pursuit and apprehension
of smugglers, and to increase inspection
personnel who search persons, baggage,
and cargo entering the country. The re-
maining $7.5 million would permit the
Internal Revenue Service to intensify in-
vestigation of persons involved in large-
scale narcotics trafficking.
These steps would strengthen our ef-
forts to root out the cancerous growth of
narcotics addiction in America. It is im-
possible to say that the enforcement legis-
lation I have asked for here will be
conclusive-that we will not need further
legislation. We cannot fully know at this
time what further steps will be necessary.
As those steps define themselves, we will
be prepared to seek further legislation to
take any action and every action necessary
to wipe out the menace of drug addiction
in America. But domestic enforcement
alone cannot do the job. If we are to stop
the flow of narcotics into the lifeblood of
this country, I believe we must stop it at
the source.
INTERNATIONAL
There are several broad categories of
drugs: those of the cannabis family—
such as marihuana and hashish; those
which are used as sedatives, such as the
barbiturates and certain tranquilizers;
those which elevate mood and suppress
appetite, such as the amphetamines; and,
drugs such as LSD and mescaline, which
commonly called hallucinogens.
Finally, there are the narcotic analgesics,
including opium and its derivatives-
morphine and codeine. Heroin is made
from morphine.
are
Heroin addiction is the most difficult
to control and the most socially destructive
form of addiction in America today.
Heroin is a fact of life and a cause of
death among an increasing number of
citizens in America, and it is heroin addic-
tion that must command priority in the
struggle against drugs.
To wage an effective war against heroin
addiction, we must have international co-
operation. In order to secure such coop-
746
