[314] Sept. 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
your schedule, at the entrance to the State
Dining Room at this time.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:25 a.m. in
the East Room at the White House.
On the same day, the White House released
a biography of Mr. Brosio and a fact sheet on
the Presidential Medal of Freedom.
Mr. Brosio responded to the President's re-
marks as follows:
Mr. President:
I am honored, happy, and proud of this dis-
tinction you have awarded to me more than I
could ever say. It is for me an undeserved and,
in any case, an unexpected privilege to receive
the Medal of Freedom after the few Europeans
who have already received it, and alongside
such personalities as Paul Henri Spaak and
Jean Monnet, two names which represent, in
my mind, the highest virtue and merit of great
European and great Atlantic men to a degree
which I have always admired and by far never
reached.
Another special reason of satisfaction for me
is to receive this award from you, Mr. President,
and as far as I know, as the first European to
whom you have presented it. You know, Mr.
President, that our acquaintance is not recent.
You mentioned it. It goes back to the time
when, in '55, you were Vice President, and
after those 6 years of my mission as Ambassador
of Italy in Washington, to the intermediate 7
years in which you were preparing your come-
back, and our relationship continued.
In all that time, my admiration and trust in
you has never failed, and in these last years of
Presidential responsibility, facing tremendous
world and national problems, old and new, it
has never diminished. Indeed, it has increased
with the size of your difficulties and of your
statesmanlike courage.
So my thanks to you today are genuine, and
strengthened by a personal touch which I hope
you appreciate. But I believe that the deepest
reason for my satisfaction today is my convic-
tion that your generous gesture is directed not
only, and perhaps not mainly, toward a man
worthy or unworthy, as he may be, but to an
institution and to a policy. I see it as a reaffir-
mation of fidelity and attachment to the
Atlantic Alliance as the main foundation of the
foreign policy of the United States and of free
Europe.
Of this fidelity and attachment, you have
given during your term of office repeated dem-
onstrations in deeds and in significant gestures.
Your first visit to Europe at the very beginning
of your term in 1969 was to Brussels and to
the seat and the Council of NATO. Later on,
when the problems of the Mediterranean and of
American forces in Europe required your at-
tention, you met with us in Naples and reas-
sured us of your unfailing support.
Now, as I withdraw from NATO, you have
chosen to stress again the basic importance of
the links the United States has with it. This is
most appropriate in a moment of great hopes
and of great uncertainty in our Western free
world. The might of the Warsaw Pact is grow-
ing. The trade and monetary difficulties within
the free world are now at a serious turning
point. The situation in the Middle East is diffi-
cult, and in the Far East is obscure. The third
world is anxious and restless.
At the same time, we are today as near as
we have ever been to the promising possibility
of real negotiations and honest understanding
between East and West and Europe, which
requires all our good will and our attention.
In these critical moments, critical in a posi-
tive, no less and indeed even more than in a
disturbing, sense, the link between Europe and
North America remains vital and decisive. We
must overcome our differences and draw from
their settlement a stronger basis for pursuing
and accomplishing together our unfulfilled
mission of civilization: peace and freedom.
I am stepping down today, a small wheel in
a continuing movement, which can easily be
replaced. Your recognition will remain with
me not only as a cherished memory but as a
pledge for all of us, a pledge of loyalty and
solidarity between Americans and Europeans.
Thank you very much.
1012
