Richard Nixon, 1971
Aug. 19 [274]
this is a beautiful country. It is a beautiful
country. Don't let anybody tell you any-
thing else.
Second, it took a great people to make
this country. When you think of those 13
States, with 3 million people on the
Atlantic seaboard, when you think of what
they did across those prairies and then
across those huge mountains into Idaho
and then on to California, down into
Texas and the rest, what kind of people
did this?
They were strong. They were competi-
tive. They had a sense of purpose. They
were a great people. Let's be worthy of the
great pioneers of the past in America
today.
Also at a time like this I think of the
problems America faces: the problems of
ending a war and ending it in an honor-
able way, winning a peace, which we are
doing; the problems of building a new
peace and a new prosperity; the prob-
lems of inspiring a people. And that is
the problem that all of us have, and the
responsibility that all of us have, whether
we are Republicans or Democrats, or
whatever we may be: to go back into our
communities and see that young America
understands what a beautiful country this
is, what a great history we have, and what
a great future we have, provided they
have a sense of mission, a sense of destiny,
and a sense of purpose.
What is it? What should it be? What
can we settle for? There is an insidious
line of propaganda, insidious in my
view-some believe it is not-that runs
through some public commentaries today.
And that is this: It doesn't matter whether
America is number one. We are number
one in terms of our military strength
today; we are number one in terms of our
productivity economically today. We are
rather proud of that, not in a jingoistic
sense, because of what it has meant to us
and what it has meant to the world.
Let me tell you something: It matters
very much for America to continue to be
the leader of the world and to be number
one. First, in the field of foreign policy,
look at the free world. There is no other
nation in the world that has the strength,
potentially, to defend freedom around the
world and negotiate for peace, so the
United States must maintain that strength
if we want a generation of peace, and we
shall.
Our purpose in being number one is not
simply to have somebody else feel that he
is inferior. It goes much deeper than that,
and that brings me to the other side of the
coin.
Why should America care whether we
are the most productive nation in the
world? Not simply because we want the
highest standard of living, which we have,
but for something far more important:
Because once any people resign themselves
to being second or third or fourth best,
they will cease to be a great people.
My comrades of the Veterans of For-
eign Wars, the history of civilization is
strewn with the wreckage of nations that
were rich and that fell before people that
were less rich and considered to be inferior
to them intellectually and in every other
way, because the rich nations, in their
maturity, lost their drive, lost their desire,
lost their dynamism, lost their vitality.
In the world today, let's face some-
thing: Other nations-some built up, and
it was right to do so, as the result of our
assistance after World War II-are now
our strong competitors economically.
Others are competing in other ways. We
should not complain about that, because
competition is what we believe in. Com-
913
