Richard Nixon, 1971
Dec. 8 [384]
pensions are not now vested. Forty percent
of participants age 45 or older, 34 percent
of participants age 50 or older, and 26
percent of participants age 55 or older do
not have vested pension rights.
This problem can be corrected by re-
quiring that pensions be fully vested at an
appropriate specified point in a worker's
career. But how should that point be
determined? If it were set at too early a
point, so that too many younger workers
were vested, it could create a considerable
burden for employers and reduce the level
of benefits for retiring workers. On the
other hand, if too long a wait were allowed
before vesting begins, then many older
workers would receive little if any assist-
ance. Both of these pitfalls can be
avoided, however, through a carefully
drawn formula which provides a shorter
waiting period before vesting begins for
older workers.
The formula that I propose to the
Congress is based upon what I shall call
the "Rule of 50." Under this standard,
every pension would be considered half
vested when an employee's age plus the
number of years he has participated in the
pension plan equals 50. The vesting
process would begin with this jump to
half-vested status. After this point has
been reached, an additional ten percent
of the pension would be vested every
year-so that the pension would be fully
vested five years later.
Under this standard, which must apply
to the workers who are 30 years of age or
older, anyone joining a plan when he is
30 years old would find that his pension
would begin to vest at age 40, when his
years of participation (10) plus his age
(40) would equal 50. The pension of an
employee joining at age 40 would begin
to vest at age 45, and that of an employee
joining at age 50 would begin to vest
immediately. And in each case, the de-
gree of vesting would increase from 50
percent to 100 percent over the subse-
quent five-year period.
This plan gives older workers the
advantage of more rapid vesting, a fact
which could limit somewhat new employ-
ment opportunities for older workers. To
help alleviate this danger, I recommend
that a three-year waiting period be al-
lowed before a new employee must be
permitted to join a pension plan, and also
that employees hired within five years of
retirement need not fall under this vesting
rule. These safeguards would ensure that
older workers are not disadvantaged by
this program.
This "Rule 50" would raise the share
of participants in private pension plans
with vested pensions from 31 percent to
46 percent. Even more importantly,
among participants age 45 and older the
percentage with vested pensions would
rise from 60 percent to 92 percent. Over-
all, the number of employees with vested
rights would increase by 3.6 million, of
whom 3 million would be age 45 and
older.
To avoid excessive cost increases in pen-
sion plans which might lead to reduction
of benefits, this new law would apply only
to benefits earned after the bill becomes
effective. The average cost increase for
plans with no vesting provision now would
be about 1.8 cents per hour for each
covered employee.
4. The Employee Benefits Protection
Act which I proposed to the Congress in
March of 1970 should promptly be en-
acted into law.
This legislation was designed to protect
American workers against abuses by those
who administer pension funds. As I
1171
