[363] Nov. 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
all Americans will benefit. And we can
win this fight which is in the interest of
all Americans.
Now, ladies and gentlemen, I want to
address myself briefly to another reason I
am really honored to be here. I would
like to illustrate it with a story.
Several months ago at one of those great
White House receptions, where hundreds
of people came through the line, a boy
and his father came through the line. The
boy was a graduate of one of our better
Eastern colleges, obviously very well edu-
cated. The father was a working man, a
hard-working man. I could tell when I
shook his hand. I could tell as he spoke
briefly with me in the line that he had not
had the benefit of a college education, or
even of a high school education. But he
spoke from his heart, if his grammar may
not have been the most perfect.
As I spoke to him, I saw the boy stand-
ing there, embarrassed, ill at ease. Then
it came over me. The boy was ashamed
of his father.
I will tell you how I felt. I was ashamed
of the son. My father grew up in a very
poor family. He quit school in the sixth
grade because his mother died 3 years
earlier. He worked, when we were grow-
ing up, as a carpenter, as an oilfield work-
er, as a streetcar motorman, as a grocer,
and as a service station operator.
He raised five boys, and every one of
them got a better education than he did,
because of how he worked. He was very
proud when I was elected Congressman,
Senator, and Vice President, and I was
proud of him to the day he died.
I know these days, having read recently
about the reaction of some people on wel-
fare in one of our major cities, that people
who, some of those on welfare, don't want
to take jobs if they are considered to be
menial jobs. Let me give you my response
to that. I guess every job my father had
was a menial job; but any job that puts
food on the table and buys shelter and
clothing and education for a man's fam-
ily is not a menial job.
Let's recognize that in America once
and for all. Let us recognize that the only
thing demeaning in America is for one
man to refuse to work and to let another
man who does work pay taxes to keep him
on welfare. Any work is preferable to wel-
fare. That is what I believe, and that is
what the members of this organization
believe.
Hard work is what built America, and
it is time in this country we demonstrate
a new appreciation of the dignity of work
and what it means. You all know that
America is the number one nation in the
world economically. Why is that impor-
tant? Because by being number one eco-
nomically, we are able to be first in the
world in terms of military power and are
able to work for peace in the world; be-
cause our economic strength enables us
to do things for the poor, the disadvan-
taged that could not otherwise be done.
And remember, the poor in America
would be rich in 90 percent of the world
today, and we hope it will always be that
way as far as our people are concerned,
and our concern for them.
So as we look at America's economic
strength, we realize that we have to keep
it, and how are we going to keep it? Let
me tell you how we are going to keep it.
We can pass laws, we can have all the
fancy ideas of the political scientists and
the sociologists and the economics profes-
sors and those that have plans for what
America will be, but without the hard
work and the patriotism and the charac-
ter of 80 million American wage earners,
1124
