[179] May 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
for the Johnson Library. President Nixon
presented the painting during his visit to the
Library. The portrait, which is owned by the
National Gallery of Art, was placed on loan
to the White House during the Johnson Ad-
ministration and hung in the Oval Office from
February 1964 to January 20, 1969.
A White House announcement containing
further information on the portrait was released
on May 22, 1971.
180 Remarks at the Dedication of the Tennessee-Tombigbee
Waterway in Mobile, Alabama.
President Nunn, President-elect Wallace
[laughter]:
As I said to Governor Wallace, this has
been a very wonderful welcome we have
received here in Mobile. And I must say
that I have never seen such a good-
humored and good-spirited crowd, here
in Mobile, Alabama. I hope to come back
some day.
As a matter of fact, when this was put
on my schedule, they pointed out that I
would be coming into a State where a
man had been and might be in the future
a candidate for President of the United
States, and that there were others in this
State who had very great popularity. I
must say that Bear Bryant ยน really scares
me.
But certainly in the spirit of this oc-
casion, where we are not Republicans,
where we are not Democrats, where we
are not Southerners or Northerners or
Easterners or Westerners, where we know
no race, no religion, where we are Ameri-
cans, it seems to me that it is most appro-
priate that I should put this event in
historical perspective in just a few mo-
ments to tell you what it means in terms
of the five States that will be affected
by it, to tell you also what it means in a
larger sense in terms of the spirit of Amer-
ica and where we go in the years ahead.
ยน Paul (Bear) Bryant, football coach at the
University of Alabama.
May 25, 1971
I studied this project when I was in the
Congress of the United States and many
of the distinguished Members of the Con-
gress were there then when the Tennessee-
Tombigbee, in the 80th Congress 24 years
ago, was a major issue. I thought that was
when people started to talk about it, but
I found that Albert Gallatin, who was the
Secretary of the Treasury in 1808, 160
years ago, proposed a series of waterways
for the whole country that would bring
the country together in a geographical
sense and also in a national sense and that
would mean that all the country could
grow economically together. And the Del-
aware Valley went forward under that
program many, many years ago, and the
Ohio Valley and the Missouri Valley; but
the Tennessee-Tombigbee, some way or
other, never got up to the place where
the Congress would approve it.
Finally, after 160 years of trying to
talk it to death, the Congress decided to
pass it and now here it is: the Tennessee-
Tombigbee.
I want you to know that it is to the
great credit of both parties of several ad-
ministrations that this project now begins,
and I would say in that context that we
can think today of, for example, the peo-
ple that are on this platform representing
the States that are involved-Governor
Wallace, of course, of this State of Ala-
bama; Governor Dunn could not be here,
but his State is, of course, represented, the
658
