Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 2 [38]
because we have virtually all of those who
were present at the State of the Union.
This audience is four times as large, but
not only four times as large, but a hun-
dred countries are represented here, many
cities, many States with their Governors,
many representatives of great private in-
stitutions, of educational institutions, rep-
resentatives of all segments of American
life.
Perhaps it would be impossible to find
any audience in America in which more
power, in the best sense of the word, was
gathered in one room than here at this
prayer breakfast this morning.
This tells us something, it seems to me,
about the strength of America. All of us
are talking these days and thinking these
days a great deal about what America will
be like when we celebrate our 200th birth-
day just 5 years from now. We know, as
one of the previous speakers indicated,
that America will be the richest country
in the world then; we know that America,
if it wants to be, can be the strongest
country in the world then; and we also
know, if we have listened carefully to the
theme that has run through the prayers
and the remarks this morning, that wealth
and strength alone do not measure the
greatness of this country or of any country
for that matter.
The question of whether America on its
200th birthday will be the hope of the
world, as it was at the time of its birth,
will depend not on our strength or on our
wealth, because then we were very poor
and we were very weak. But America was
a good country. America stood for spirit-
ual and moral values that far transcended
the strength and the wealth of the nations
of the Old World.
And that is what we all want America
to be on its 200th anniversary, not just
big, not just strong, and not just
rich, but a good country in every sense of
the word good at home, good in our
relations with other nations and the world.
That is why we are gathered here. That
is why these prayer breakfasts here in
the Nation's Capital and all over this Na-
tion tell us something about America,
that the cynical observers would overlook
sometimes; and that is, there is a great
deal of goodness in this country, a great
deal of moral strength and fiber still left
in this country and that, in the end, is
what really matters.
I was trying to think, after the eloquent
words of the Chief Justice, what prayer
I could leave with this very distinguished
audience and with those who are listen-
ing on television and on radio all over the
world. And I was reminded of one of the
favorite stories from the Old Testament.
You will recall that when King David
died and when Solomon ascended to the
throne, God came before him in a dream
and asked him what he wanted. And Solo-
mon did not ask for power and he did not
ask for wealth. He said, "Give Thy serv-
ant an understanding heart."
And so, let that be our prayer. Let us
have an understanding heart in our rela-
tions with other nations, an understanding
heart in our relations between races and
religions and parties and generations, and
in our relations with each other.
And if America can have an under-
standing heart in the very best sense of the
word on that 200th birthday, we will be
very rich and very strong, but more im-
portant, we will be truly a good country
and the hope of the world still.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:20 a.m. in
the International Ballroom at the Washington
Hilton Hotel.
Senator B. Everett Jordan of North Carolina
103
