[22] Jan. 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
summary report.
But this is no time to sit back or to ease
off in our efforts. The programs which
are now operating must be made to oper-
ate even more effectively. More impor-
tantly, we must remember that the key to
better nutrition in the long run is to pro-
vide sufficient income to purchase ade-
quate diets and to meet the other basic
day-to-day needs.
I will urge the Congress to enact welfare
reform and higher social security benefits
to meet this need. These essential reforms
should be made promptly-for the good
of the poor, the elderly, and the Nation as
a whole.
I urge those who will participate in the
followup Conference on Food, Nutrition,
and Health to study this summary report
to assist them in evaluating the original
recommendations and in gauging our
progress in this vital area of national
policy.
NOTE: The report is entitled "White House
Conference on Food, Nutrition, and Health:
Summary Report" (Government Printing Of-
fice, 14 pp.).
On the same day, the White House released
the transcript of a news briefing on the report
by Elliot L. Richardson, Secretary of Health,
Education, and Welfare; and Clifford M.
Hardin, Secretary, and Edward J. Hekman,
Administrator, Food and Nutrition Service,
Department of Agriculture.
23 Exchange of Letters With Dr. Jean Mayer About a
Followup Meeting of the White House Conference
on Food, Nutrition, and Health.
Dear Dr. Mayer:
It was particularly thoughtful of you to
write to me about the Williamsburg meet-
ing. It should be an extremely useful re-
view of the work accomplished over the
past year since the original White House
Conference. I understand that you have
already done a great deal to develop plans
for this follow-up conference, and I want
you to know how much I appreciate not
only your encouraging comments but also
your readiness to continue helping us out.
With best wishes,
Sincerely,
RICHARD NIXON
[Dr. Jean Mayer, School of Public Health,
Harvard University, 665 Huntington Avenue,
Boston, Massachusetts 02115]
NOTE: The President's letter was dated Janu-
ary 19, 1971, and released January 21.
Dr. Mayer was Special Consultant to the
President in 1969 with responsibility for plan-
January 21, 1971
ning the first White House Conference on Food,
Nutrition, and Health.
Dr. Mayer's letter, dated January 11 and
released with the President's letter, read as
follows:
Dear Mr. President:
I would like to congratulate and thank you
for calling the follow-up meeting on the Con-
ference on Food, Nutrition and Health as you
indicated you would a year ago. By doing so
you have demonstrated that White House con-
ferences can, indeed, become important tools
in national planning rather than simple exer-
cises in the listing of desirable reforms.
During the intervening year, I have seen my
role as a prodder to try to get members of the
administration, officials at the state and local
level, industry and voluntary associations to do
more to fulfill the national pledge expressed by
you to eliminate hunger and malnutrition from
America for all time. Let me assure you that
while I have constantly pushed for more action,
I have been very much impressed with the
progress made this year under your leadership.
The number of poor children receiving free
48
