[148] Apr. 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
the U.S. has major interests and which
have convincingly demonstrated the will
and ability to help themselves-including
Israel and Jordan in the Middle East and
Cambodia, Vietnam and Korea in East
Asia.
Such support is necessary to carry out
one of the central thrusts of the Nixon
Doctrine-moving us from bearing the
major responsibility for the defense of our
friends and allies to helping them achieve
an increasing capability to maintain their
own defense. This increase in security
assistance enables us to continue to reduce
our direct presence abroad, and helps to
reduce the likelihood of direct U.S. mili-
tary involvement in the future.
Second, the international development
institutions have continued their progress
toward leadership in the international
development process. For example:
-The World Bank continues to in-
crease the size and improve the effec-
tiveness of its operations. It also has
decided to broaden the scope of its
lending beyond the traditional fi-
nancing of projects to the provision
of funds to support overall develop-
ment programs in appropriate cir-
cumstances, and it is developing an
improved internal evaluation and
audit system.
-The United Nations Development
Program has initiated a reorganiza-
tion to improve its administration. In
time this will enable it to assume a
leading role in coordinating the in-
ternational technical assistance effort.
-The World Health Organization has
effectively guided and coordinated
the worldwide effort to cope with the
present cholera epidemic in Africa.
Third, the industrialized countries have
now agreed on comparable systems of
tariff preferences for imports from the
lower income countries. The preferences
plan is a major step in the crucial inter-
national effort to expand the export earn-
ings of these countries, and hence to
reduce their reliance on external aid. The
European Community has indicated that
it plans to put its tariff preferences into
effect on July 1, and Japan has an-
nounced that it will do so before
October I.
Fourth, there has been satisfying prog-
ress toward achieving the untying of bi-
lateral development loans on a fully
reciprocal basis. This action will enhance
the value of economic assistance to recipi-
ent countries, and eliminate the political
frictions which tied aid now causes. Virtu-
ally all of the industrialized countries have
agreed to the principle of untying. Details
of a system offering suppliers of all par-
ticipating countries a fair and equitable
basis for competition are now being
worked out in the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development.
Fifth, I have established a Council on
International Economic Policy, which I
chair, to coordinate all aspects of U.S.
foreign economic policy, including devel-
opment assistance. It will provide top-
level focus for our policies in this area, and
accord them the high priority which they
require in our foreign policy for the
1970s.
I am heartened by this progress, but
much more remains to be done:
-I again urge the Congress to vote the
additional funds which I have re-
quested for the Inter-American De-
velopment Bank and the Asian
Development Bank.
-We will shortly transmit legislation
to authorize the U.S. contribution to
the doubling of the resources of the
566
