[264] Aug. 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
proposed tonight—on the job front, on
the inflation front, on the monetary
front is the most comprehensive new
economic policy to be undertaken in this
Nation in four decades.
We are fortunate to live in a nation
with an economic system capable of pro-
ducing for its people the highest standard
of living in the world; a system flexible
enough to change its ways dramatically
when circumstances call for change; and,
most important, a system resourceful
enough to produce prosperity with free-
dom and opportunity unmatched in the
history of nations.
The purposes of the Government ac-
tions I have announced tonight are to lay
the basis for renewed confidence, to make
it possible for us to compete fairly with
the rest of the world, to open the door
to new prosperity.
But government, with all of its powers,
does not hold the key to the success of a
people. That key, my fellow Americans,
is in
your hands.
A nation, like a person, has to have a
certain inner drive in order to succeed. In
economic affairs, that inner drive is called
the competitive spirit.
Every action I have taken tonight is
designed to nurture and stimulate that
competitive spirit, to help us snap out of
the self-doubt, the self-disparagement that
saps our energy and erodes our confidence
in ourselves.
Whether this Nation stays number one
in the world's economy or resigns itself
to second, third, or fourth place; whether
we as a people have faith in ourselves, or
lose that faith; whether we hold fast to
the strength that makes peace and free-
dom possible in this world, or lose our
grip—all that depends on you, on your
competitive spirit, your sense of personal
destiny, your pride in your country and in
yourself.
We can be certain of this: As the threat
of war recedes, the challenge of peaceful
competition in the world will greatly
increase.
We welcome competition, because
America is at her greatest when she is
called on to compete.
As there always have been in our his-
tory, there will be voices urging us to
shrink from that challenge of competition,
to build a protective wall around our-
selves, to crawl into a shell as the rest of
the world moves ahead.
Two hundred years ago a man wrote in
his diary these words: "Many thinking
people believe America has seen its best
days." That was written in 1775, just
before the American Revolution-the
dawn of the most exciting era in the his-
tory of man. And today we hear the
echoes of those voices, preaching a gospel
of gloom and defeat, saying the same
thing: "We have seen our best days."
I say, let Americans reply: "Our best
days lie ahead."
As we move into a generation of peace,
as we blaze the trail toward the new pros-
perity, I say to every American: Let us
raise our spirits. Let us raise our sights.
Let all of us contribute all we can to this
great and good country that has con-
tributed so much to the progress of
mankind.
Let us invest in our Nation's future, and
let us revitalize that faith in ourselves
that built a great nation in the past and
that will shape the world of the future.
Thank you and good evening.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9 p.m. in the
Oval Office at the White House. His address
890
