[26] Jan. 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
But let us also establish an effective
work incentive and an effective work
requirement.
Let us provide the means by which
more can help themselves. This shall be
our goal.
Let us generously help those who are
not able to help themselves. But let us stop
helping those who are able to help them-
selves but refuse to do so.
The second great goal is to achieve
what Americans have not enjoyed since
1957-full prosperity in peacetime.
The tide of inflation has turned. The
rise in the cost of living, which had been
gathering dangerous momentum in the
late sixties, was reduced last year. Infla-
tion will be further reduced this year.
But as we have moved from runaway
inflation toward reasonable price stability
and at the same time as we have been
moving from a wartime economy to a
peacetime economy, we have paid a price
in increased unemployment.
We should take no comfort from the
fact that the level of unemployment in
this transition from a wartime to a peace-
time economy is lower than in any peace-
time year of the sixties.
This is not good enough for the man
who is unemployed in the seventies. We
must do better for workers in peacetime
and we will do better.
To achieve this, I will submit an ex-
pansionary budget this year-one that will
help stimulate the economy and thereby
open up new job opportunities for millions
of Americans.
It will be a full employment budget, a
budget designed to be in balance if the
economy were operating at its peak poten-
tial. By spending as if we were at full
employment, we will help to bring about
full employment.
I ask the Congress to accept these ex-
pansionary policies to accept the con-
cept of a full employment budget. At the
same time, I ask the Congress to cooper-
ate in resisting expenditures that go
beyond the limits of the full employment
budget. For as we wage a campaign to
bring about a widely shared prosperity,
we must not reignite the fires of inflation
and so undermine that prosperity.
With the stimulus and the discipline of
a full employment budget, with the com-
mitment of the independent Federal Re-
serve System to provide fully for the
monetary needs of a growing economy,
and with a much greater effort on the part
of labor and management to make their
wage and price decisions in the light of the
national interest and their own self-
interest-then for the worker, the farmer,
the consumer, for Americans everywhere
we shall gain the goal of a new prosperity:
more jobs, more income, more profits,
without inflation and without war.
This is a great goal, and one that we
can achieve together.
The third great goal is to continue the
effort so dramatically begun last year:
to restore and enhance our natural
environment.
Building on the foundation laid in the
37-point program that I submitted to
Congress last year, I will propose a strong
new set of initiatives to clean up our air
and water, to combat noise, and to pre-
serve and restore our surroundings.
I will propose programs to make better
use of our land, to encourage a balanced
national growth-growth that will re-
vitalize our rural heartland and enhance
the quality of life in America.
And not only to meet today's needs but
to anticipate those of tomorrow, I will put
forward the most extensive program ever
52
