Richard Nixon, 1971
Feb. 18 [63]
we devote almost 7% of our GNP to
health expenditures.
This growing investment in health has
been led by the Federal Government. In
1960, Washington spent $3.5 billion on
medical needs—13 percent of the total.
This year it will spend $21 billion-or
about 30 percent of the nation's spending
in this area.
But what are we getting for all this
money?
For most Americans, the result of our
expanded investment has been more med-
ical care and care of higher quality. A
profusion of impressive new techniques,
powerful new drugs, and splendid new
facilities has developed over the past dec-
ade. During that same time, there has
been a six percent drop in the number of
days each year that Americans are dis-
abled. Clearly there is much that is right
with American medicine.
But there is also much that is wrong.
One of the biggest problems is that
fully 60 percent of the growth in medical
expenditures in the last ten years has gone
not for additional services but merely to
meet price inflation. Since 1960, medical
costs have gone up twice as fast as the
cost of living. Hospital costs have risen
five times as fast as other prices. For grow-
ing numbers of Americans, the cost of
care is becoming prohibitive. And even
those who can afford most care may find
themselves impoverished by a catastrophic
medical expenditure.
The shortcomings of our health care
system are manifested in other ways as
well. For some Americans-especially
those who live in remote rural areas or
in the inner city-care is simply not avail-
able. The quality of medicine varies
widely with geography and income. Pri-
mary care physicians and outpatient fa-
cilities are in short supply in many areas,
and most of our people have trouble ob-
taining medical attention on short notice.
Because we pay so little attention to pre-
venting disease and treating it early, too
many people get sick and need intensive
treatment.
Our record, then, is not as good as it
should be. Costs have skyrocketed but val-
ues have not kept pace. We are in-
vesting more of our nation's resources
in the health of our people but we are
not getting a full return on Our
investment.
BUILDING A NATIONAL HEALTH STRATEGY
Things do not have to be this way. We
can change these conditions-indeed, we
must change them if we are to fulfill our
promise as a nation. Good health care
should be readily available to all of our
citizens.
It will not be easy for our nation to
achieve this goal. It will be impossible to
achieve it without a new sense of purpose
and a new spirit of discipline. That is why
I am calling today not only for new pro-
grams and not merely for more money but
for something more-for a new approach
which is equal to the complexity of our
challenges. I am calling today for a new
National Health Strategy that will
marshall a variety of forces in a coordi-
nated assault on a variety of problems.
This new strategy should be built on
four basic principles.
1. Assuring Equal Access. Although the
Federal Government should be viewed as
only one of several partners in this reform-
ing effort, it does bear a special responsi-
bility to help all citizens achieve equal
access to our health care system. Just as
our National Government has moved to
171
