[403] Dec. 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
want to go to heaven, but I would rather
stay here." So the closest thing to heaven,
certainly on this earth and this hemi-
sphere, on such an occasion like this, is
Bermuda.
Then, too, the place that we are meet-
ing, this beautiful ship, the fact that it is
Her Majesty's Navy, it seems to me, that
that choice must have been made when
the Prime Minister did his usual careful
checking of the backgrounds of those who
would be here—not only the President of
the United States and his guests, the Secre-
tary of State and the Secretary of the
Treasury, were all former naval people.
But whatever the case might be, what
really made me realize that he was going
the extra mile in picking the place and
picking this ship, was when I found that
the motto of this ship is "Aim For The
Highest." That just happens to be the
motto of the Secretary of the Treasury,
also.
As I was talking and reminiscing with
a great deal of appreciation about the as-
sociation we had during World War II,
our two countries, and the friendships we
developed, I was thinking of what is called
that special relationship between Britain
and the United States. I was thinking of
how Bermuda fitted into that relationship,
and the fact that we are the fourth of four
very historic meetings that have been held
here: 1953, Prime Minister Churchill and
President Eisenhower; 1957, President
Eisenhower and Prime Minister Macmil-
lan; 1961, President Kennedy and Prime
Minister Macmillan; and now Prime
Minister Heath and I.
As I thought of those dates, and of the
probable agendas of those meetings, I
thought in terms of how much the world
has changed, not simply since 1953 or since
1961-I thought of how much the world
has changed, and I have tried to think in
terms of that special relationship between
Britain and the United States which has
existed for so long and to what extent that
relationship still is healthy, maturing, and,
also, necessary.
On the one hand, it would be quite easy
to gain the impression, through a super-
ficial examination, that the relationship
had not only changed, as the Prime Min-
ister has already suggested, but that it per-
haps no longer was relevant. Because on
the one side, with the Prime Minister's
courageous leadership, Britain is now en-
tering the European Community, and as
it enters Europe, its relationship with us
will be one which is, of course, new in
many respects, but necessarily will affect
its relationship with the United States and
other countries also.
On the other hand, we find that the
President of the United States will be vis-
iting this year Peking and Moscow. So a
superficial examination of those events
would say, on the one hand, the British
are moving to Europe, and on the other
hand, the United States is moving toward
Moscow and toward Peking, and, there-
fore, what happens to the relationship, the
relationship which meant so much in 1953,
in 1957, and 1961? Is it still something
that can be talked about? Is it still the
same?
The answer, of course, is, it is not the
same. The fact that it is not the same does
not mean that it is still not very necessary,
and perhaps even more important than it
was. I say that for this reason: We do live
in a changing world. We live in a world,
as we all know, in which powers that were
not important just a few years ago now
have become enormously important. We
live in a world where there are dangers on
the scene today that no one could foresee
1198
