Richard Nixon, 1971
May 1 [156]
Now, when you go, however, to the
question of subpoenaing the notes of re-
porters, when you go to the question of
government action which requires the re-
vealing of sources, then I take a very jaun-
Idiced view of that kind of action unless
it is strictly—and this would be a very
narrow area-strictly in the area where
there was a major crime that had been
committed and where the subpoenaing of
the notes had to do with information deal-
ing directly with that crime. As you know,
that is provided for in many States at the
present time.
But as far as the subpoenaing of notes
is concerned, of reporters, as far as bring-
ing any pressure on the networks, as the
Government is concerned, I do not sup-
port that.
I believe, however, that each of us, as
a public figure, has a right to indicate
when we think the news coverage has been
fair or unfair. Generally speaking, I also
feel that I do not have to say much about
that because, regardless of what I say,
you are going to say anything you want
about me, and it usually may not be very
good.
WIRETAPS
[6.] Q. Mr. President, regarding the
use of wiretaps in domestic security
matters-
THE PRESIDENT. The kind that you
don't have with subpoenas, in other
words?
Q. Right, without court orders. The
Attorney General has stated the policy on
that, and he has been criticized by Con-
gressman Emanuel Celler of New York,
who says that this could lead to a police
state. Would you comment on the threat
of a police state in the use of this type of
activity?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I have great
respect for Congressman Celler as a
lawyer and as, of course, the dean—as you
know, he is the dean of all the Congress-
men in the House, a very distinguished
Congressman. However, in this respect I
would only say: Where was he in 1961?
Where was he in 1962? Where was he in
1963?
Today, right today, at this moment,
there are one-half as many taps as there
were in 1961, '62, and '63, and 10 times
as many news stories about them. Now,
there wasn't a police state in 1961 and '62
and '63, in my opinion, because even then
there were less than 100 taps; and there
are less than 50 today; and there is none
now, at the present time.
All of this hysteria-and it is hysteria,
and much of it, of course, is political
demagoguery to the effect that "the FBI
is tapping my telephone," and the rest—
simply doesn't serve the public purpose. In
my view, the taps, which are always ap-
proved by the Attorney General, in a
very limited area, dealing with those who
would use violence or other means to over-
throw the Government, and limited, as
they are at the present time, to less than
50 at any one time, I think they are justi-
fied. And I think that the 200 million peo-
ple in this country do not need to be
concerned that the FBI, which has been-
with all the criticism of it-which has
a fine record of being nonpolitical,
nonpartisan, and which is recognized
throughout the world as probably the best
police force in the world. The people of
this country should be thankful that we
have an FBI that is so greatly restricted
in this respect.
This is not a police state. I have been
to police states; I know what they are.
I think that the best thing that could hap-
609
