[174] May 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
that our resources are being effectively
mobilized to meet the needs of the area,
I have set up an interagency committee.
The committee, which will include rep-
resentatives of the Office of Emergency
Preparedness, the Department of Agri-
culture, the Small Business Administra-
tion, and the Office of Management and
Budget, will make periodic reports and
recommendations to me concerning these
important efforts.
NOTE: On the same day, the White House
released the transcript of a news briefing on
the President's actions by Clifford M. Hardin,
Secretary of Agriculture, and Senators Henry
L. Bellmon of Oklahoma and John G. Tower
of Texas.
A White House announcement of Federal
assistance to farmers and ranchers in drought-
stricken areas of Texas was released on
April 14, 1971, and is printed in the Weekly
Compilation of Presidential Documents (vol.
7, p. 629).
175 Remarks Announcing an Agreement on Strategic Arms
Limitation Talks. May 20,
Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen:
As
you know, the Soviet-American talks
on limiting nuclear arms have been dead-
locked for over a year. As a result of ne-
gotiations involving the highest level of
both governments, I am announcing to-
day a significant development in breaking
the deadlock.
The statement that I shall now read
is being issued simultaneously in Moscow
and Washington: Washington, 12 o'clock;
Moscow, 7 p.m.
The Governments of the United
States and the Soviet Union, after re-
viewing the course of their talks on the
limitation of strategic armaments, have
agreed to concentrate this year on work-
ing out an agreement for the limita-
tion of the deployment of anti-ballistic
missile systems (ABMs). They have
also agreed that, together with conclud-
ing an agreement to limit ABMs, they
will agree on certain measures with
respect to the limitation of offensive
strategic weapons.
The two sides are taking this course
in the conviction that it will create more
1971
favorable conditions for further negotia-
tions to limit all strategic arms. These
negotiations will be actively pursued.
This agreement is a major step in break-
ing the stalemate on nuclear arms talks.
Intensive negotiations, however, will be
required to translate this understanding
into a concrete agreement.
This statement that I have just read
expresses the commitment of the Soviet
and American Governments at the highest
levels to achieve that goal. If we suc-
ceed, this joint statement that has been
issued today may well be remembered as
the beginning of a new era in which all
nations will devote more of their energies
and their resources not to the weapons of
war, but to the works of peace.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12 noon in the
Briefing Room at the White House. His remarks
were broadcast live on radio and television.
On the same day, the White House released
the text of the joint statement read by the
President; a chronology of the strategic arms
limitation talks, including a list of the U.S.
delegation; and an information sheet on the
status of the SAFEGUARD antiballistic mis-
sile system and comparisons of U.S. and Soviet
strategic force strengths.
648
