[254] Aug. 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
254 Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual Report
on the National Wilderness Preservation System.
August 5, 1971
To the Congress of the United States:
Today I am transmitting the 7th An-
nual Report on the status of the National
Wilderness Preservation System. The Re-
port spells out the substantial progress
which has been made in the Wilderness
System, a System which now encompasses
more than 10.1 million acres-an increase
of over 200,000 acres in the last year.
On April 28, 1971, I transmitted four-
teen new wilderness proposals to the
Congress. If approved, these proposals
would enlarge our Wilderness System by
an additional 1.8 million acres. Again, I
urge quick and favorable congressional
action on these proposals as well as on
thirteen other proposals which are also
before the Congress and which would add
over a million acres to the System. Wilder-
ness designation of all these areas is vital
if we are to preserve their natural environ-
ment for future generations of Americans.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House
August 5, 1971
NOTE: The report is entitled "Seventh Joint
Annual Report of the Secretaries of Agriculture
and the Interior Concerning the Status of the
National Wilderness Preservation System" (6
pp. plus appendixes).
255 Remarks to Delegates to the Girls Nation
Annual Convention. August 6, 1971
I WOULD like to say a word about the
role that you can play as young ladies
and as women in the years ahead.
Let me be quite candid. You know,
there is a lot of debate going on these days
about Women's Lib, and, frankly, men
disagree about it. Most of them perhaps
disagree very strongly; but on another side
are the strong advocates of Women's Lib.
And among the women, you know, there
is also disagreement.
Well, like all ideas and all movements,
it has many good factors and some which
perhaps are questionable. But I think
what is really important is to get the role
of women in America and the world today
in its proper perspective. The way I
would put it is this.
First, the role of women is tremendously
important from a political standpoint, be-
cause all election statistics presently show
that there are more women who are po-
tential voters than there are men. So, any
candidate for office had better get along
well with women.
The second point, in terms of the role
women can play in our society, is that
many have very active and responsible
roles in the Government of the United
States. Women today are Members of the
Congress; one is a Member of the Senate.
And both political parties are making a
major effort to enlist women in govern-
ment positions at the local level, at the
State level, and, of course, at the Federal
level.
Now, there is one very selfish reason
for doing that, for purposes of political
864
