Appendix B
August
12 The President met with Dr. Arnold R.
Weber, Associate Director of the Office of
Management and Budget, to thank him for
his work in that position and in his former
assignment as Assistant Secretary of Labor
for Manpower. Dr. Weber will return to the
University of Chicago on September 1.
George P. Shultz, Director of the Office of
Management and Budget, also joined the
meeting.
13 The President met with the National Secu-
rity Council at the White House.
13 The President met with White House sum-
mer interns in his office at the White House.
13 The President met with the Quadriad at
Camp David.
16 The President met with the Cabinet at the
White House to discuss his address to the
Nation outlining a new economic policy for
the United States.
16 The President went to the State Department
to open a briefing for sub-Cabinet and other
officials on his new economic policy.
17 The President met at the White House with
the bipartisan Congressional leadership and
with chairmen and ranking minority mem-
bers of several committees to discuss the
President's new economic policy. In atten-
dance at the meeting were Senators Mike
Mansfield, Robert P. Griffin, Wallace F.
Bennett, Russell B. Long, John G. Tower,
Allen J. Ellender, and Milton R. Young, and
Representatives Gerald R. Ford, Leslie C.
Arends, John W. Byrnes, Wilbur D. Mills,
and William B. Widnall.
17 The President attended the swearing in of
James R. Schlesinger as Chairman and Wil-
liam Offutt Doub as a member of the
Atomic Energy Commission, at a White
House ceremony.
17 Members of the Oakland Athletics baseball
team called on the President at the White
House.
18 During a visit to New York City, the Pres-
ident met with Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller.
August
20 The President met with Gov. Ronald
Reagan of California at the Western White
House, for a discussion of welfare reform
and the President's new economic
initiatives.
24 Ambassador William J. Porter met with
the President at the Western White House
for consultation prior to assuming his post
as the head of the United States delega-
tion at the Paris meetings on Vietnam.
September
7 The President met with the Council on
International Economic Policy at the
White House.
9 Former Governor Raymond P. Shafer of
Pennsylvania, Chairman of the Commis-
sion on Marihuana and Drug Abuse, met
with the President to report on the Com-
mission's deliberations and hearings to date.
9 The President participated in separate
oath-taking ceremonies for Ezra Solomon
as a member of the Council of Economic
Advisers and for Frank C. Carlucci III as
Associate Director of the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget.
9 The President and Mrs. Nixon attended
the National Symphony concert marking
the opening of the Concert Hall at the
John F. Kennedy Center for the Perform-
ing Arts.
10 Labor leaders met with the President at the
White House for a discussion of his new
economic policy.
10 The President participated in a ceremony
marking the promotion of Brig. Gen. Albert
J. Redman, Jr., Commanding Officer of
the White House Communications Agency.
10 Ernst G. Breitholtz, president of Rotary
International, called on the President at the
White House.
11 The White House announced that approxi-
mately 4 acres of Federal land in West
Haven, Conn., had been conveyed to that
city for park and recreational uses, as part
of the "Legacy of Parks" program.
1262
