[203] June 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
to question. I intend to leave no room for
other nations to question our commitment
to this matter.
Sixth, we must recognize that coopera-
tion in control of dangerous drugs works
both ways. While the sources of our chief
narcotics problem are foreign, the United
States is a source of illegal psychotropic
drugs which afflict other nations. If we
expect other governments to help stop the
flow of heroin to our shores, we must act
with equal vigor to prevent equally dan-
gerous substances from going into their
nations from our own. Accordingly, I am
submitting to the Senate for its advice and
consent the Convention on Psychotropic
Substances which was recently signed by
the United States and 22 other nations.
In addition, I will submit to the Congress
any legislation made necessary by the
Convention including the complete li-
censing, inspection, and control of the
manufacture, distribution, and trade in
dangerous synthetic drugs.
Seventh, the United States has already
pledged $2 million to a Special Fund
created on April 1 of this year by the
Secretary General of the United Nations
and aimed at planning and executing a
concerted UN effort against the world
drug problem. We will continue our
strong backing of UN drug-control efforts
by encouraging other countries to con-
tribute and by requesting the Congress
to make additional contributions to this
fund as their need is demonstrated.
Finally, we have proposed, and we are
strongly urging multilateral support for,
amendments to the Single Convention on
Narcotics which would enable the Inter-
national Narcotics Control Board to:
-require from signatories details about
opium poppy cultivation and opium pro-
duction-thus permitting the Board ac-
cess to essential information about nar-
cotics raw materials from which illicit
diversion occurs;
-base its decisions about the various
nations' activities with narcotic drugs not
only as at present on information officially
submitted by the governments, but also
on information which the Board obtains
through public or private sources—thus
enhancing data available to the Board in
regard to illicit traffic;
-carry out, with the consent of the
nation concerned, on-the-spot inquiries
on drug related activities;
-modify signatories' annual estimates
of intended poppy acreage and opium
production with a view to reducing acre-
age or production; and
-in extreme cases, require signatories
to embargo the export and/or import
of drugs to or from a particular country
that has failed to meet its obligations
under the Convention.
I believe the foregoing proposals estab-
lish a new and needed dimension in the
international effort to halt drug produc-
tion, drug traffic, and drug abuse. These
proposals put the problems and the search
for solutions in proper perspective, and
will give this Nation its best opportunity
to end the flow of drugs, and most par-
ticularly heroin, into America, by literally
cutting it off root and branch at the
source.
CONCLUSION
Narcotics addiction is a problem which
afflicts both the body and the soul of
America. It is a problem which baffles
many Americans. In our history we have
faced great difficulties again and again,
wars and depressions and divisions among
our people have tested our will as a peo-
ple-and we have prevailed.
748
