Richard Nixon, 1971
Mar. 25 [116]
ties or any other significant groups within
our country. To the contrary, I propose
these reforms because I am convinced they
will enable us to serve these groups much
better. Under my proposals, the new De-
partment of Economic Affairs would be in
a much stronger position really to do
something about the wide-ranging factors
which influence farm income than is the
present Department of Agriculture, for
example. It could do more to meet the
complex needs of workingmen and women
than can the present Department of La-
bor. It would be able to pull together
a wider range of resources to help mi-
nority businessmen than can the present
Department of Commerce.
Federal organization in the economic
area has been the target of frequent criti-
cism over the years. During the previous
administration alone, two special studies
of executive organization recommended
that it be substantially altered. I have re-
ceived a similar recommendation from
my Advisory Council on Executive
Organization.
I am therefore recommending to the
Congress that a new Department of Eco-
nomic Affairs be established to promote
economic growth, to foster economic jus-
tice, and to encourage more efficient and
more productive relationships among the
various elements of our economy and be-
tween the United States economy and
those of other nations. As this single new
Department joined the Treasury Depart-
ment, the Council of Economic Advisers
and the Federal Reserve Board in shaping
economic policy, it would speak with a
stronger voice and would offer a more
effective, more highly integrated view-
point than four different departments can
possibly do at present. The activities of
the new Department would be grouped
under the following six administrations:
Business Development, Farms and Agri-
culture, Labor Relations and Standards,
National Transportation, Social, Eco-
nomic, and Technical Information and
International Economics.
The new Department of Economic Af-
fairs would include many of the offices
that are now within the Departments of
Commerce, Labor and Agriculture. A
large part of the Department of Trans-
portation would also be relocated here,
including the United States Coast Guard,
the Federal Railroad Administration, the
St. Lawrence Seaway Development Cor-
poration, the National Transportation
Safety Board, the Transportation Systems
Center, the Federal Aviation Administra-
tion, the Motor Carrier Safety Bureau and
most of the National Highway Traffic
Safety Administration. The Small Busi-
ness Administration, the Science Informa-
tion Exchange program from the Smith-
sonian Institution, the National Institute
for Occupational Health and Safety from
the Department of Health, Education,
and Welfare and the Office of Technology
Utilization from the National Aeronau-
tics and Space Administration would also
be included in the new Department.
OTHER ORGANIZATIONAL REFORMS
Regrouping functions among depart-
ments can do a great deal to enhance
the effectiveness of government. It should
be emphasized, however, that regrouping
functions within departments is also a
critical part of my program for executive
reform. Just as like tasks are grouped
together within a given department, so
similar operations should be rationally
assembled within subordinate units. Such
a realignment of functions, in and of
485
