[199] June 11
Public Papers of the Presidents
sewer, open space, and new commu-
nities programs.
Similarly, the statutory requirement of
"fair housing" applies in the area of pri-
vate housing construction, where the Fed-
eral role is substantial. The Federal
Government provides billions of dollars
in assistance and guarantees of mortgage
credit for housing financing. The Federal
Government sets standards widely used
by industry, such as minimum property
standards, credit standards, appraisal
standards, and construction standards.
The Federal Government makes market
analyses which materially influence the
private sector. The Federal Government
approves mortgagees, builders, developers,
and brokers with respect to their doing
business with HUD. Local government
and private initiative and Federal stand-
ards work together to produce new hous-
ing. And under the law, that new
housing-like all the Nation's housing
stock-must be open equally to all Amer-
icans regardless of race, religion, or na-
tional origin.
In approaching questions of "fair hous-
ing" for low- and moderate-income per-
sons, it is important to remember that
we are dealing with a rather imprecise
term and with two separate matters.
One is the elimination of racial discrim-
ination in housing. On this, the Constitu-
tion and the laws are clear and
unequivocal: Racial discrimination in
housing will not be tolerated.
In public discussions of "fair housing"
or "open housing," however, another is-
sue has often become confused with that
of racial discrimination. This is some-
times referred to as "economic integra-
tion." Frequently it arises in debates over
whether subsidized low-rent public hous-
ing should be placed in the suburbs as a
means of moving poor people out of the
inner city and, if so, where, to what ex-
tent, and by what means.
One of the arguments frequently
advanced is that poor people are often dis-
advantaged by living in low-income neigh-
borhoods; that poverty thus perpetuates
itself; and that the remedy therefore is to
scatter the poor among the more affluent.
Another argument often heard is that
blacks and other minorities tend to be
disproportionately poor, and that "eco-
nomic segregation" is therefore equivalent
to racial segregation.
It is important to remember, however,
that the terms "poor" and "black" are
not interchangeable. A higher percentage
of blacks than of whites lives below the
poverty line-but there are far more poor
whites in America than there are poor
blacks. Much of the Nation's most dis-
mally inadequate housing is occupied by
blacks; much of it is occupied by whites.
Many of the worst slums are black; many
are white. And by the same token, the
skilled trades, the businesses, and profes-
sions increasingly are populated by afflu-
ent blacks whose children go to the best
schools and colleges and who themselves
have taken their deserved place in the
leadership, not simply of inner-city neigh-
borhoods but of urban, suburban, and
rural communities all across America.
To cite only one statistic, a recent spe-
cial census study showed that in the North
and West, black husband-wife families
headed by persons under 25 had a median
income equal to that of their white con-
temporaries. Although the income dis-
parities among other ages and categories
is still far too wide, this is one measure of
how far we have come; also, because these
young families represent the future, it is
an indication of where we are heading. To
728
