[206]
April 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
what he has achieved but for what he continues to achieve. He is a courageous,
untiring patriot and, on a personal basis, I think, a great guy. May he keep
serving his country. May he keep serving his country, warming our hearts for
many, many long years to come.
If I may, may I add a very personal note. May Eddie's wonderful sense of
humor stay with us, too, lightening the burdens when things seem heaviest
and reminding us all that even in serious times—and we have some serious
times right now—we must never lose our gift of laughter.
Another quality which Eddie possesses was once described by Robert E. Lee,
in very simple and very moving words. "Duty," said Lee, "is the sublimest word
in our language. Do your duty in all things. You cannot do more; should never
wish to do less."
Eddie Hébert lives by that code. I have never known him to do any less than
his very best. Louisiana is a better State and America is a better country because
of our friend Eddie Hébert.
I am proud. I cherish the many times I have been with him on the floor of
the House, in meetings concerning our national security. I cherish that relation-
ship and the opportunity to have served with him. As I said earlier, I am even
prouder to call him my friend, and I think this is really the feeling that all of
us have here today, and we are fortunate to be sharing with one another.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:50 a.m. In his opening remarks, he referred to the Most Rev. Philip M.
Hannan, Archbishop of New Orleans.
207
Remarks in New Orleans at the Annual Convention of the
Navy League of the United States. April 23, 1975
Thank you very much, Mr. President. Governor Edwards, Senator Johnston,
Representative Hébert, Representative Treen, and my dear friend, Representative
Lindy Boggs, Mayor Landrieu, Rabbi Feibelman, Archbishop Hannan, distin-
guished guests, ladies and gentlemen, Chaplain Ray, merci garçon:
Obviously, Governor, I am delighted and highly honored to be a good Cajun.
Mr. Governor, you are also a good Cajun and have done very well in the political
arena in Louisiana. Now that I am a good Cajun, I hope I am as lucky as you are.
[Laughter]
Well, members of the Navy League and your honored guests, it is a great
562
