April 7
[171]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
ultimately the Nation's businesses determine the health of the Nation's
economy.
Government handouts and make-work programs cannot go on forever.
The best way to get those who want work back on the job is by temporary tax
incentives to charge up our free enterprise system.
Government measures are at best very limited. Long-range recovery must
come from the economic strength of the Nation's businesses, and this includes
farmers, labor, and all other productive segments of our society.
The potentially larger deficits that loom ahead unless the Congress takes a
serious look at the Nation's needs in the years, not just the days ahead,
could make a solid, sustainable, and non-inflationary recovery in our Nation
impossible.
Adding to the deficit in times like this is like gambling. If the deficit for the
next year were only $50 billion, we run only a very small risk of reigniting the
fires of inflation. But every time your Congressmen and your Senators add a new
spending program or otherwise increase the deficit by a few billion more, the
inflationary odds go against us. Running a deficit of some $100 billion in a
12-month period of time is gambling with the Nation's economic strength.
If there is runaway spending by the Government, we will again be caught
up in a destructive inflationary spiral. This inflation will create the same kind
of consumer uncertainty we saw last fall which unfortunately caused consumers
to reduce discretionary spending. That reduction caused production cutbacks
and the ensuing job losses that affect us tragically today.
It requires very careful managing to end the recession without promoting
inflation. This task is made much more complicated by the present attitude of
many Members of the Congress, to look only at the immediate problems of
some of the people, instead of looking at the future welfare of all of the people.
This narrow view prompted the inclusion in the tax cut bill of a number of
well-intentioned, but ill-conceived changes in our tax laws. Now, I share the
desire of many in the Congress for tax reform. But meaningful changes must
be based on deliberate and thoughtful evaluation of what is fair to all of our
taxpayers.
The Congress voted additional benefits to aid the low-income taxpayer. The
same people they sought to help will be the first hurt by the return of double-
digit inflation. There is little doubt that those who will get a temporary benefit
from the new tax cut law will wind up footing the bill through inflation unless
the Congress acts responsibly on spending in the coming months.
It is my judgment that we have to stop trading today for tomorrow in our
443
