[115]
February 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
Q. It is enough of a start to work now toward a compromise?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:20 p.m. in the
Cabinet Room at the White House. White House
correspondents and photographers were present dur-
ing this portion of the meeting.
Later in the afternoon, the President also met
with the Republican Congressional leadership to
discuss energy and economic proposals.
116
Remarks at the Young Republican Leadership Conference.
February 28, 1975
AT THE outset, let me express, on behalf of Betty and our daughter, Susan,
how glad we are that all of you are here. We hope you are going to enjoy the
White House and relax and have a good time.
We think this is a great home. [Laughter] And Betty does not like to move
very often. [Laughter]
I
guess that leads to the conclusion that I am going to undoubtedly, without
any question of a doubt, at the proper time, be a candidate. And I intend to be
a candidate for a political party that is devoted to the basic principles that have
built this country from a small nation of some 3 million to a strong, vigorous,
effective nation of over 213 million people.
We are a party that believes in a strong national defense program, a program
that will keep the peace and give us the opportunity to negotiate for a more
permanent and a better environment around the world. But we have to have a
national defense program that is adequately funded, that has a sufficient amount
of money to buy the weapons, train the people, give the direction to our Army,
Navy, Air Force, and Marines, so that they can keep the peace for us and the
rest of the world.
The Republican Party that I believe in is a party that also, in addition to main-
taining the peace, is a party that believes in the free enterprise system and an
economy that is strong and that will grow and get stronger.
Now we, in 1968 and 1972, had good party platforms. We did, in those years,
seek to implement those platforms, and I intend to do my utmost to implement
those platforms and those programs between now and the next election. And if
we do, we will win in 1976.
Unfortunately, in 1974 we had a bad election year. An awful lot of Repub-
licans did not vote. Far more Democrats, percentage-wise, participated in that
308
