[188]
April 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
Coffee Organization in the past will enable producing and consuming countries
to again harmonize their interests in a mutually beneficial accord.
I am also transmitting, for the information of the Senate, the report submitted
to me by the Department of State explaining the provisions of the Protocol
extending the International Coffee Agreement of 1968, as Extended, and pro-
viding background on the current state of the world coffee economy.
I, therefore, recommend that the Senate give early and favorable considera-
tion to this Protocol and give its advice and consent to acceptance.
The White House,
April 16, 1975.
GERALD R. FORD
NOTE: The protocol and accompanying papers are printed in Senate Executive B (94th Cong., 1st sess.).
189
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session at the Annual
Convention of the American Society of Newspaper Editors.
April 16, 1975
President Hays, distinguished editors, and guests:
I am very, very pleased to be with you today and to have this opportunity
to continue a dialog, which has been my pleasure in many parts of the country
with many of you in various regional meetings during the past few months.
Those exchanges and the one which will begin shortly are exceedingly valu-
able to me in providing an insight into the attitudes and the concerns of the
people who are your readers and my constituents.
FOREIGN POLICY
[1.] Before answering the questions put to me by the distinguished panel,
let me add, if I might, a few comments to the speech that I made to the Congress
last Thursday night and to the American people.
Let me, if I might, express in broad terms some deep beliefs that I have.
First, I firmly believe that the United States must play a very major role
in world affairs in the years ahead. It is a great and difficult responsibility, but
it is one, in my judgment, that our Nation must continue to have. This has
been my conviction, going back to my first political campaign in the fall of
1948. It was my conviction when I took my first oath of office on January 3,
494
