April 3
[167]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
really live and work and play and plan for their children, my sense of what is
right with our country is recharged and reinforced.
I am very pleased to be here today in what I have found to be an optimistic
atmosphere and problemsolving climate of southern California, and I am
delighted to be among people with great experience and great courage in build-
ing a great part of our country.
Many of the heroic POW's who were liberated from North Vietnam are here
in San Diego. They know the need for an orderly and peaceful world. They also
know-as men who lived on the brink of doom—the danger of pessimism. They
know that the objective facts are not as bad as a mood of frustration and futility to
which some of our countrymen are tempted to succumb.
Today I want to appeal to the common sense and the courage of the American
people. This is not a moment for despair or for fatalism. Obviously, it is not the
time to dismantle our defense capability—and I say with emphasis—including
our intelligence capacities.
We will go on helping people to help themselves. It is in keeping with our
religious heritage, our decency, and our own self-interest. We will preserve
partnerships with people striving for freedom on a global basis.
I reject the prophets of doom who see nothing but depression at home and
despair abroad. I will reject any advice to pull down the Stars and Stripes and
sail home from the seas of the world to the safe anchorage of San Diego Bay.
If we do so, this anchorage will no longer be safe. You know it and I know it.
Under my Presidency, we will neither furl the flag nor abandon hope. We
will maintain constancy and credibility of American foreign policy, both at
home as well as abroad. We are living, obviously, in a complicated and troubled
time. Events are moving very rapidly, but we will not withdraw inward nor
surrender to a state of shock.
America, at this hour, is being put to a test. It is not just a test of our moral
authority in the world; it is a test of our will to develop our own energy resources,
to reduce bureaucratic waste, to preserve our dollar by guarding against non-
essential spending with the same vigilance that we continue the watchfulness
and strength of our Armed Forces. It is a test of our will to provide for the
economic security of our families while reassuring the military security of our
Nation.
We can meet this test only by reducing vulnerability to weaknesses in our
economy and energy capacities. That is why an adequate security program goes
hand-in-hand with sound economic policies and prompt, effective energy
legislation.
429
