February 1
[62]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
62
Remarks at a News Briefing on the Fiscal Year 1976 Budget.
February 1, 1975
Thank you very, very much, Roy, and your associates in the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget, members of the press, guests:
It is a great privilege to be here, even though the news may not be good. But
I come here this morning, following in the footsteps of another President by
coming here personally, face-to-face to present my budget proposals for fiscal
year 1976.
That President was Harry Truman, and the last such occasion was Janu-
ary 19, 1952, when he met with the press to discuss the budget for fiscal year
1953—a budget, I might add, that had jumped to $85 billion, described at that
time as astronomical.
In the discussion President Truman said, and I quote: “This budget has been
the biggest headache I have ever had." Well, as I look at the Federal budget for
the fiscal year 1976, I can only say, "Harry, I hope you left some aspirin for me.”
Let me begin by saying that the President's annual budget is a carefully con-
sidered and integrated set of policies, programs, and priorities that a President
recommends to the people and to the Congress to set our national course into
the future. Thus, the budget is one of the President's major policy pronounce-
ments each year.
I want to talk to you about some of the key features of the budget for fiscal
year 1976, which I will submit to the Congress next Monday.
It is a big budget, calling for expenditures of $349 billion-almost $1 billion
a day-during the year starting next July 1. It will result in a large deficit for
the year-$52 billion—and this deficit, large as it is, would increase by another
$17 billion to nearly $70 billion if the Congress does not agree to all of the reduc-
tions I have requested in this budget. It is essential that the Congress be very
mindful of this fact.
I do not like to see deficits of this size-nor any, for that matter. I know most
Americans agree. And I am resolved to take those steps that will make such
deficits unnecessary in the future. That requires, most of all, the restoration of
a vigorous economy in this country. But we must be realistic; we must recog-
nize that in times like these, it is good national policy both to provide financial
support to those unemployed and to introduce a measured amount of additional
stimulus into the private economy by a tax reduction. My budget, as an integral
141
