March 4
[121]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
What we need now is a simple but substantial tax cut to revive our economy
and make more jobs. What we need next is a comprehensive energy program to
end our dependence on foreign oil producers. What we don't need is a time-
wasting test of strength between the Congress and the President. What we do
need is a show of strength that the United States Government, your Govern-
ment, can act decisively and with dispatch.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:56 p.m. in the Oval
Office at the White House before signing Proclama-
tion 4355. His remarks were recorded for later
broadcast.
121
Veto of a Bill To Suspend the President's Authority To Set O1.
Import Fees. March 4, 1975
To the House of Representatives:
I am returning H.R. 1767 without my approval. The purposes of this Act
were to suspend for a ninety-day period the authority of the President under
section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962 or any other provision of law to
increase tariffs, or to take any other import adjustment action, with respect to
petroleum or products derived therefrom; to negate any such action which may
be taken by the President after January 15, 1975, and before the beginning of
such ninety-day period.
I was deeply disappointed that the first action by the Congress on my com-
prehensive energy and economic programs did nothing positive to meet Amer-
ica's serious problems. Nor did it deal with the hard questions that must be
resolved if we are to carry out our responsibilities to the American people.
If this Act became law, it would indicate to the American people that
their Congress, when faced with hard decisions, acted negatively rather than
positively.
That course is unacceptable. Recent history has demonstrated the threat to
America's security and economy caused by our significant and growing reliance
on imported petroleum.
Some understandable questions have been raised since my program was an-
nounced in January. I am now convinced that it is possible to achieve my import
goals while reducing the problems of adjustment to higher energy prices.
Accordingly:
313
