February 10
[82]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
those of us who have worked in the years gone by with the Office of the Budget
know that several years ago, the Office of the Budget was expanded and became
OMB. We know that Roy Ash did a super job in that new responsibility, and
that agency of our Government has a continuing responsibility of great
magnitude.
In moving from HUD over to OMB, we all recognize that Jim has got a big
pair of shoes to fill. I might say I saw Jim Lynn out at Andrews Air Force
[Base] last night, and I could not help but notice that Jim has a big pair of feet.
[Laughter] So, I think he will fill those big shoes very adequately. But the
Office of OMB is one that works very closely with me and with all of the
agencies and all of the departments. We have tried to put together—and I think
we have in the White House, in the Administration—a good team, and I think
the team will work together. And I can assure everybody that there is no place
for any "lonesome ends" as far as this Administration is concerned.
So, Jim is a part of the team in charge of a very vitally important agency of
the Federal Government. And so it is my privilege and honor, on this occasion,
to participate in the swearing-in ceremony of an outstanding young man who
has done extremely well in every responsibility that he has assumed in the Fed-
eral Government. And so, Jim, I wish you the best, and I know you have taken
a pay cut, but you will make up in energy the loss of compensation.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:45 a.m. in the
Cabinet Room at the White House. William H.
Rehnquist, Associate Justice of the Supreme Court,
administered the oath of office.
Director Lynn's response to the President's re-
marks is printed in the Weekly Compilation of
Presidential Documents (vol. 11, p. 168).
82
Address Before the Houston Chamber of Commerce Conference
on Energy and the Economy. February 10, 1975
Mr. Walbridge, Senator Tower, Congressman Archer, other Members of the
House of Representatives who are here, Mayor Hofheinz, Secretary of the
Interior Rogers Morton, Mr. Alan Greenspan, the Chairman of the Economic
Council, and Mr. Paul O'Neill, the Deputy Director of the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget, ladies and gentlemen:
Let me thank you from the bottom of my heart for the opportunity to come
here to your great city of Houston to discuss the complex problems that are
facing all of us. And there is no doubt that energy and the problems of our
economy are extraordinarily complex.
207
