[264]
May 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
I
National will comes from a consensus of national purpose, from the collec-
tive agreement among thinking citizens as to the goals they seek as a nation.
A free people will never find unanimity, but a people must be united in the
pursuit of certain common goals in order to remain free.
The goals that were proclaimed here in Philadelphia, after a dozen years of
war and wrestling with the problems of a new kind of self-government society,
are as valid today as they were in 1787: to form a more perfect Union, establish
justice, ensure domestic tranquillity, provide for the common defense, promote
the general welfare, and secure the blessings of liberty to ourselves and to
posterity.
We need add to these original goals only the implicit one of striving to preserve
and to advance the cause of peace and harmony among all nations and all peoples.
We do not need nobler or newer goals. We do need a renewed sense of national
purpose and a strengthening of our national will to pursue these goals.
In a sense, our American Revolution was never ended. We are unique people
in that we are at the same time eminently practical and incurably idealistic.
Americans are always more interested in the future than in the past. We expect
and we demand that tomorrow will be better than today.
While I have spoken of national goals, I know that each of you—and rightly
so-have individual goals and that the celebration of this day is clouded by the
immediate problem of furthering those goals by finding meaningful employ-
ment.
Almost a million young Americans graduating from institutions of higher
learning this year are faced, through no fault of their own, with economic diffi-
culties greater than any since the period of my own commencement with the
class of 1935.
As President, my first objective has been to overcome current economic prob-
lems. Our national goal is jobs for all who want to work and economic opportu-
nity for all to want to achieve.
Government-your government, mine-must follow policies that enable and
encourage the private economic system to create more meaningful jobs in the
real world. Greater productivity is the only sure way to greater prosperity and a
better life for everybody.
Yes, we are coming out of this recession. We are on our way back. And we are
on the right track. We cannot be satisfied with simply getting back to where
we were, and we will not.
We must redefine, as I see it, our national purposes and pursue them with a
682
