[134]
March 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
Thank you, Ben. Will you all sit down and let me make an observation. I was
looking in the office-I have a little private office over the Oval Office-at a
stamp collection that was started in our family a good many years ago.
As a matter of fact, I have a stamp collection book that was given to me by
an uncle and an aunt, given to me in 1922, which they had started in Argentina
when they were stationed there with an American company in 1912.
I don't know what it is worth-I am not that knowledgeable-but a collection
of stamps, I think, is a great, great hobby. I have been collecting things in this
area. And at some time in the future I am going to sit down and enjoy them and
really get the benefit from the great causes and things that they represent.
I thank you very much, Ben, for your thoughtfulness and your expression on
this occasion. This will be one thing that I will remember for a long time, and
very deeply.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:06 p.m. in the Con-
gressional Room at the Statler Hilton Hotel at the
dinner sponsored by the Institute of Collective Bar-
gaining and Group Relations, Inc., of New York
City.
In his opening remarks, he referred to William W.
Winspisinger, president, and Elmer T. Klassen,
chairman of the institute, and W. J. Usery, Jr.,
Director of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation
Service.
The "honored guests" to whom the President re-
ferred were Bob Hallock, designer of the com-
memorative stamp, and George Segal, whose
sculpture honoring collective bargaining was un-
veiled at the dinner and was presented to the U.S.
Government.
135
Remarks to Participants in the Government Affairs Conference
of the National Newspaper Association. March 14, 1975
IT IS nice to see you all, and it is very, very nice to have you in the White House
and in the East Room.
I think it is particularly appropriate that we meet here in the East Room to
chat for a few minutes about some of our Nation's problems. As I think most of
you know, the East Room is very, very rich in history in our National Capital.
This famous room is full of happy as well as sad moments in the lives of resi-
dents of this house and in this Nation's past.
You might be interested to know that the first First Lady in this house was
Abigail Adams, who wrote her family of hanging laundry in this room and the
problems of the new Federal City. Mrs. Adams sent news to her family of the
large and small problems that she faced as First Lady—the same kind of news,
I might add, that you in this room share with your readers back home.
348
