April 10
[179]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
this confidence was misplaced and that suddenly America will deny us the
means which might give us a chance to find an acceptable solution to our
conflict."
This letter speaks for itself. In January, I requested food and ammunition
for the brave Cambodians, and I regret to say that as of this evening, it may be
soon too late.
Members of the Congress, my fellow Americans, this moment of tragedy for
Indochina is a time of trial for us. It is a time for national resolve.
It has been said that the United States is over-extended, that we have too
many commitments too far from home, that we must reexamine what our truly
vital interests are and shape our strategy to conform to them. I find no fault
with this as a theory, but in the real world such a course must be pursued
carefully and in close coordination with solid progress toward overall reduction
in worldwide tensions.
We cannot, in the meantime, abandon our friends while our adversaries sup-
port and encourage theirs. We cannot dismantle our defenses, our diplomacy,
or our intelligence capability while others increase and strengthen theirs.
Let us put an end to self-inflicted wounds. Let us remember that our national
unity is a most priceless asset. Let us deny our adversaries the satisfaction of
using Vietnam to pit Americans against Americans. At this moment, the United
States must present to the world a united front.
Above all, let's keep events in Southeast Asia in their proper perspective. The
security and the progress of hundreds of millions of people everywhere depend
importantly on us.
Let no potential adversary believe that our difficulties or our debates mean a
slackening of our national will. We will stand by our friends, we will honor our
commitments, and we will uphold our country's principles.
The American people know that our strength, our authority, and our leader-
ship have helped prevent a third world war for more than a generation. We
will not shrink from this duty in the decades ahead.
Let me now review with you the basic elements of our foreign policy, speak-
ing candidly about our strengths and some of our difficulties.
We must, first of all, face the fact that what has happened in Indochina has
disquieted many of our friends, especially in Asia. We must deal with this situa-
tion promptly and firmly. To this end, I have already scheduled meetings with
the leaders of Australia, New Zealand, Singapore, and Indonesia, and I expect
to meet with the leaders of other Asian countries as well.
A key country in this respect is Japan. The warm welcome I received in
465
