April 19
[198]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
To do this, America needs new ideas and new efforts from our people. Each
of us, of every color, of every creed, are part of our country and must be willing
to build not only a new and better nation but new and greater understanding
and unity among our people.
Let us not only be a nation of peace but let us foster peace among all nations.
Let us not only believe in equality but live it each day in our lives. Let us not
only feed and clothe a healthy America but let us lend a hand to others
struggling for self-fulfillment. Let us seek even greater knowledge and offer the
enlightenment of our endeavors to the educational and scientific community
throughout the world. Let us seek the spiritual enrichment of our people more
than material gains. Let us be true to ourselves, to our heritage, and to our home-
land, and we will never then be false to any people or to any nation.
Finally, let us pray here in the Old North Church tonight that those who
follow 100 years or 200 years from now may look back at us and say: We were
a society which combined reason with liberty and hope with freedom.
May it be said above all: We kept the faith, freedom flourished, liberty lived.
These are the abiding principles of our past and the greatest promise of our
future.
Good evening, and may God bless you all.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:25 p.m. at a
service inaugurating the national Bicentennial cele-
bration. In his opening remarks, he referred to
Right Rev. John M. Burgess, Episcopal Bishop of
Massachusetts, and Rev. Robert W. Golledge, Vicar
of the Old North Church.
Following the President's remarks, two lanterns
were lighted by Robert Newman Ruggles and
Robert Newman Sheet, descendants of Robert New-
man, who, as sexton of the Old North Church
in 1775, lighted the two lanterns which signaled the
movement of British troops. The President then
lighted a third lantern which symbolized American's
forthcoming third century.
198
Remarks at the Old North Bridge, Concord, Massachusetts.
April 19, 1975
Thank you very, very much, Mr. Suter. Governor Dukakis, Mr. Ambassador,
Senator Brooke, Senator Kennedy, Members of the House of Representatives,
distinguished guests, and fellow Americans:
Two hundred years ago today, American Minutemen raised their muskets
at the Old North Bridge and answered a British volley. Ralph Waldo Emerson
called it "the shot heard round the world." The British were in full retreat soon
afterwards and returned to Boston. But there was no turning back for the
colonists-the American Revolution had begun.
529
