[45]
January 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
the OPEC nations have solidified their organization a great deal more than
they did before. So, we might have a solid front this time rather than one that
was more flexible.
MR. CHANCELLOR. In other words, you are worried not about an Arab oil
boycott but a boycott by all the oil-producing countries that belong to OPEC?
THE PRESIDENT. That is correct.
MR. CHANCELLOR. Do you regard that as a political—
THE PRESIDENT. It is a possibility.
MR. CHANCELLOR. And in that case, that would produce the necessity for a gas
rationing system?
THE PRESIDENT. It would produce the necessity for more drastic action. I think
gas rationing in and of itself would probably be the last resort, just as it was
following the 1973 embargo.
At that time, as you remember, John, in order to be prepared, Bill Simon, who
was then the energy boss, had printed I don't know how many gas rationing
coupons. We have those available now; they are in storage. I think they cost
about $10 million to print. But they are available in case we have the kind of
a crisis that would be infinitely more serious than even the one of 1973.
MR. CHANCELLOR. Mr. President, you have talked also about energy inde-
pendence, and it is a key to your whole program. As I recall, of the 17 million
barrels of oil a day we use in this country, about 7, as you say, come from other
countries.
Let me just put it to you in a tendentious way. An awful lot of experts are
saying that it will be impossible for us by 1985 to be totally free of foreign sup-
plies of energy. Do you really think we can make it?
The President. The plan that I have submitted does not contemplate that
we will be totally free of foreign oil, but the percentage of reliance we have, or
will have, on foreign oil will be far less.
At the present time, for example, John, 37 percent of our crude oil use comes
from foreign sources. In contrast to 1960-we were exporting oil. But in the
interval between 1960 and the present time, we are now using 37 to 38 percent
of foreign oil for our energy uses.
Now, if my plan goes through, if the Congress accepts it and we implement it
and everything goes well, by 1985, if I recall, instead of 37- or 38-percent depend-
ence on foreign oil, we will be down to about 10 percent. Well, a 10-percent
cutoff with all the contingency plans we might have, we can handle without any
crisis.
96
