[206]
April 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
206
Remarks in New Orleans at Groundbreaking Ceremonies for
the F. Edward Hébert Library. April 23, 1975
Thank you very much, my close and dear friend, your Congressman, Eddie
Hébert. Mrs. Hébert, Governor Edwards, Lieutenant Governor Fitzmorris, Sen-
ator Johnston, my former colleagues in the House of Representatives Lindy
Boggs and Dave Treen, Mayor Landrieu, Bishop Hannan, distinguished guests,
ladies and gentlemen:
I don't believe that I have ever had a more complimentary introduction. And I
hope and trust, Eddie, that what you have said I can live up to. It certainly is
what we as a people must do. And to the extent that I can, you can be assured
that I will try to the maximum.
I am here in the great area of New Orleans. It is a privilege and a pleasure for
me to participate in the groundbreaking ceremony for the Hébert Library.
There are few men in the United States Congress that I have known longer or
respected more than the man that all of us honor here on this occasion today.
Eddie Hébert and I have many views in common. We have had some areas of
disagreement, but the main relationship that I have had with your great Con-
gressman is the personal one. And that personal relationship has meant a great
deal to me over the time that we have known one another.
I compliment all of you in this great part of our country for showing the
superb judgment in seeing to it that you are represented by Eddie Hébert.
Eddie Hébert was a legislative veteran when I entered the Congress in Janu-
ary of 1949. Eddie Hébert is a leading Member of the Congress today, 26 years
after I first met him and 34 years after he first entered the Congress of the
United States.
But we are not paying tribute today to Eddie Hébert because of his stamina
and Eddie's staying-power, remarkable as those attributes are. We are here
today because of the service Eddie Hébert has rendered to all of you and many
before you and hopefully many that will follow you. He has rendered an un-
believable service on behalf of his people, his State, and his country.
Now, even though Eddie and I have served on different sides of the political
aisle in the House of Representatives, I have especially respected his total dedica-
tion to a strong America. I guess so many of us feel very close to Eddie Hébert,
and I especially-and let me tell you a story, if I might.
When I was the Republican leader in the House of Representatives, Eddie
560
