January 23
[45]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the action that I have taken, John, is only administra-
tive action up to and through, prospectively, April 1. If the Congress has not
acted in roughly 3 months-and I certainly hope they will-I can, of course,
remove the import duty that I have imposed. I have the flexibility—it is $1 the
first month, $2 the second, and $3 the third. I have the flexibility to retain it at
$1 or to leave it at $2. I just hope the Congress understands the need and necessity
for new legislative action.
I think my proposal of taking money from the economy and giving it back
will mean equity in the first place; it will help us conserve energy in the second;
and it will provide the wherewithal for us to develop and explore for new sources
of energy.
Now, this is a well-balanced program. If the Congress can improve on it, I
am more than glad to cooperate with them. But the time for action had come,
and that is why I took the rather stern action today.
MR. BROKAW. Mr. President, you have been quite adamant in your resistance
to some of the proposals that have come from Congress. For instance, a number
of the leaders, including Mike Mansfield, have talked seriously about gas ration-
ing, and the White House opposition and criticism of gas rationing has been,
I think, clear to everyone. You just wouldn't sign it under any conditions. So,
where is the give-and-take in the program?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, Tom, I think you bring up the very fundamental ques-
tion that I had to decide as we worked for about 2 months on what was the best
approach, as we saw it.
What are we trying to do? That is the main thing, Tom. We are trying to
conserve energy in the first instance, and we are trying to provide funds for
exploration and development of new sources of energy. And we are seeking,
basically, to remove our country's vulnerability from foreign oil and energy
sources. I was presented with two volumes of options, or alternatives, covering
the whole spectrum of conservation and new sources of energy.
We took a look at gas rationing. We took a look at the allocation of crude oil
and the derivative products. In the case of gas rationing, here is what I found,
and I think it is accurate.
I found, for example, that it wouldn't be gas rationing for 6 months or a year.
This is a 10-year program of conservation. So when we put gas rationing on, it
would have to be for a minimum of 5 years and probably 10 years.
Well, in World War II, we had gas rationing for 4 or 5 years during a serious
crisis, and even then we had black marketeering, we had cheating. And in
peacetime, gas rationing for 4 or 5 or 10 years I just don't think would work.
93
