[243]
May 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. They do not represent a new negotiating process. I am meet-
ing with President Sadat and Prime Minister Rabin for the purpose of getting
from them any recommendations they might have as to how we can maintain
the peace in the Middle East, how we can come to some final settlement that
will be beneficial to all of the parties.
We are in the process of reassessing our Middle East policy, and they can
make a very valuable contribution with their on-the-spot recommendations.
Q. Mr. President, do you now see any hopeful signs that there is any move-
ment there off dead center?
The President. I am always optimistic. I believe that the leaders of all of
the countries, both Arab and Israeli as well as others, recognize the seriousness
of any new military engagement in the Middle East and the ramifications that
might come from it.
So, I'm optimistic that as we try to move ahead, aimed at avoiding a stale-
mate, avoiding stagnation, that we can work with other countries in order to
ensure the peace and a settlement that will be satisfactory to all parties.
VIETNAMESE REFUGEES
[3.] Q. Mr. President, you have been reported as being “damn mad” about
the adverse reaction of the American people to the Vietnamese refugees. I would
like to ask you, how do you explain that reaction? What in your judgment is
the cause of that?
The President. Mr. Lisagor [Peter Lisagor, Chicago Daily News], I am
primarily very upset, because the United States has had a long tradition of
opening its doors to immigrants from all countries. We are a country built
by immigrants from all areas of the world, and we have always been a humani-
tarian nation. And when I read or heard some of the comments made a few
days ago, I was disappointed and very upset.
I was encouraged this afternoon, however. I understand that the executive
committee of the AFL-CIO passed a resolution urging that the United States
open its doors and make opportunities available for the South Vietnamese who
have been driven or escaped from their country.
I understand that the American Jewish Committee has likewise passed a
resolution this afternoon, endorsing the policy of making opportunities avail-
able in the United States for South Vietnamese. And I am very proud of those
Governors like Governor Pryor of Arkansas, Governor Askew of Florida, Gov-
ernor Longley of Maine, Governor Evans of Washington, Governor Ariyoshi
642
