[324]
June 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
completed its work and has submitted a report which contains a number of
recommendations for changes in the framework within which U.S. intelligence
activities are conducted. I have reviewed the report and believe that it estab-
lishes a sound basis for addressing structural and other possible weaknesses in
the operation of the CIA and other intelligence bodies.
It is vital to the national security and foreign policy of the United States that
we preserve and strengthen our intelligence institutions and capabilities. It is
equally important that all government intelligence activities strictly observe
constitutional guarantees against the violation of individual civil liberties. Within
this context, I request that you review the report and provide me your comments
on the report and its recommendations as soon as possible.
GERALD R. FORD
325
Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual Report
of the National Endowment for the Humanities.
June 12, 1975
To the Congress of the United States:
I am pleased to transmit the Ninth Annual Report of the National En-
dowment for the Humanities for fiscal 1974.
The humanistic traditions upon which this Nation was built still provide
the moral and political basis of our life as a people. In fiscal 1974, the Humani-
ties Endowment approached its first decade of grant making with projects
designed to bring the insights of the humanities to all Americans.
The Endowment's efforts over the past ten years have been noteworthy.
Public support for its programs and objectives can be measured by its increasing
ability to attract public contributions that have, in the past five years, exceeded
the federally appropriated funds set aside to match them. I am happy to note
that in 1974 private citizens, foundations, and corporations donated over $6.5
million. This reaffirmation of public confidence justifies, I believe, the strong
support the Endowment has received from both the legislative and the
executive branches.
The White House,
June 12, 1975.
GERALD R. FORD
NOTE: The 244-page report is entitled "Ninth Annual Report of the National Endowment for the
Humanities."
810
