June 16
[331]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Both anniversaries play an important part in our
relations.
The United States Constitution gave birth to
modern democracy based on freedom and, thus, to
the democratic family of nations to which the
Federal Republic also belongs.
For us Germans, the 30th anniversary of the end
of the war calls forth ambivalent feelings, but it
also reminds us of the debt of gratitude we owe
to the people of the United States for the generous
help they afforded their former enemy. I need not
press the point that this help will never be
forgotten.
But we must not only dwell on the past, we must
also face up to the present. No one, Mr. President,
has a clearer picture than you and the Government
you lead of the problems of worldwide dimensions
which confront us today.
The free Western World has taken up this historic
challenge. I am convinced it has enough courage,
perception, imagination, and initiative to solve the
pending problems.
Of course, this cannot be done unless we join
forces. Alone, everyone for himself, we shall not
succeed. This means that we need European unifica-
tion. We need the Atlantic partnership between a
united Europe and the United States of America.
This Atlantic partnership must comprise not only
our common security policy, which will continue to
be vital, but also all political spheres of importance
for both sides. In particular, it must include a com-
mon approach to the crucial economic and monetary
problems facing the world today. Every step towards
more solidarity, I believe, is a step to strengthening
our free democratic system.
Your impressive visit to Europe underlined once
more these fundamental truths. The countries joined
in the Atlantic partnership do not cut themselves off
from the outside world. Indeed, one of the reasons
for uniting has been to contribute with our combined
strengths towards a solution of the global social
problem of our time-that of development.
The chances for the survival of democracy are, as
I see it, crucially dependent on the forces of free-
dom all over the world, finding the right answer
to this problem.
Mr. President, I am pleased to feel that I am a
welcome guest in your country. Let me say here and
now that you, too, would be a highly welcome guest
in our country. I do hope that I will be able in the
not too distant future to welcome you in Bonn as
the guest of the Federal Republic of Germany. But
right now, Mr. President, I am looking forward to
my talks with you.
Thank you.
PRESIDENT FORD. Thank you very much. I look
forward to coming there.
331
Remarks on the Establishment of the John J. McCloy Fund
for German-American Exchanges. June 16, 1975
Mr. President:
Let me, on behalf of the American people, thank you for two things.
First, of course, we thank you for this very generous gift to the American
people on our Bicentennial. It will be, I think, used most beneficially in cement-
ing relations in the future between your Government and ours.
But secondly, let me thank you for recognizing one of our great citizens,
John J. McCloy. Unfortunately, the American people have not, in my judg-
ment, adequately understood and recognized the significant contributions that
John McCloy made to the postwar era and the development of relations between
the Government of West Germany and our own.
I believe the establishment of this fund will, in this case, give recognition to
a man who was always available for public service, a public service that seldom
819
