[169]
April 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
We as a great nation today stand ready to defend ourselves and support our
allies, as surely as we always have, and as we always will.
In this hour of sadness and, I am sure, frustration, let us not dispel our en-
ergies with recrimination or assessments of blame. The facts, whatever they may
be, will speak for themselves, and historians will have plenty of time to judge
later on.
What is now essential is that we maintain our balance as a nation and as
people and that we maintain our unity as a powerful but peace-loving nation.
While we have suffered setbacks, both at home and abroad, it is essential for
Americans to retain their self-confidence and their perspective. And I, through
you and others, appeal to all Americans to share my optimism in the future of
the United States of America.
This, it is my judgment, is a time to return to fundamentals, to mobilize our
assets, and to believe in the great capacities of America.
Let us not, in this time of travail, succumb to self-doubt and despondency.
This obviously is not the point in history to dismantle our defenses, nor can we
adopt such a naive view of the world that we cripple our vital intelligence agen-
cies. I am convinced that America-[applause]—I am glad you feel that way—
those of us who believe that a strong intelligence community in the Federal
Government is essential to the proper implementation and execution of foreign
policy have not been too popular lately.
But let me assure you that Presidents in the past have made good decisions
because we had a good intelligence community. And Presidents in the future,
regardless of who that person might be, will make better decisions because
we have a strong, wise, superior intelligence community.
Presidents have to have that information. So, I hope and trust that you express
yourselves to those who may seek to destroy this great asset, because it is
important to a President to have that kind of help and assistance.
Now, I am convinced that Americans are determined to go on helping people
in less fortunate lands to help themselves. We retain our religious heritage,
our decency as human beings, and our own self-interest.
Of course, those are the fundamentals. We will assist the refugees of Vietnam
in any appropriate way, and we will not turn our backs on any other peoples
who are victims of comparable disasters.
There are some who see nothing but a grim future of depression at home
and disintegration abroad. I, I am sure, like you, reject that scenario. My vision
is one of growth and development worldwide through increasing interdepend-
ence of nations of the world, including the United States.
438
