January 22
[37]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
The United States, I am glad to say, has always observed the principles and
objectives of the protocol. The ratification today marks our formal commitment.
Although it is our position that the protocol does not cover riot control agents
and chemical herbicides, I have decided that the United States shall renounce
their use in war as a matter of national policy, except in a certain, very, very
limited number of defense situations where lives can be saved. This policy is
detailed in the Executive order that is being issued today.¹
The second treaty that I am signing is the Biological Weapons Convention,
which prohibits the development, production, and stockpiling of bacteriological
weapons.
It is the first international agreement since World War II to provide for the
actual elimination of an entire class of weapons-namely, biological agents and
toxicants.
As evidence of our deep commitment to the objectives of this Biological
Weapons Convention, we have already destroyed our entire stockpile of bio-
logical toxicant agents and weapons. Our biological warfare facilities have been
converted to peaceful uses.
The final act in the process of ratifying this convention requires the deposit
of the Instruments of Ratification in Washington, London, and Moscow, which
will be done when the United Kingdom and the U.S.S.R. complete their
respective ratification procedures.
Finally, I believe that these acts of ratification demonstrate the desire of our
Nation to create and to contribute to a more peaceful world, and I pledge to you
that I will continue in the search for new measures to promote that cause.
I congratulate the Members of the Senate, the Members of the House, and
the American people for backing and supporting action of this kind. So, I will
sign both.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:39 p.m. in the
East Room at the White House. In his opening
remarks, he referred to Secretary of State Henry A.
Kissinger.
Texts of the Geneva Protocol of 1925 and the bio-
logical weapons convention are printed in Treaties
and Other International Acts Series (TIAS 8061 and
8062, respectively).
¹The President signed Executive Order 11850, renouncing certain uses of chemical herbicides and riot
control agents in war, on April 8, 1975.
73
