April 10
[179]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
to assess the situation. He advises that the current military situation is very criti-
cal, but that South Vietnam is continuing to defend itself with the resources
available. However, he feels that if there is to be any chance of success for their
defense plan, South Vietnam needs urgently an additional $722 million in very
specific military supplies from the United States. In my judgment, a stabiliza-
tion of the military situation offers the best opportunity for a political solution.
I must, of course, as I think each of you would, consider the safety of nearly
6,000 Americans who remain in South Vietnam and tens of thousands of South
Vietnamese employees of the United States Government, of news agencies, of
contractors and businesses for many years whose lives, with their dependents,
are in very grave peril. There are tens of thousands of other South Vietnamese
intellectuals, professors, teachers, editors, and opinion leaders who have sup-
ported the South Vietnamese cause and the alliance with the United States to
whom we have a profound moral obligation.
I am also mindful of our posture toward the rest of the world and, par-
ticularly, of our future relations with the free nations of Asia. These nations
must not think for a minute that the United States is pulling out on them or
intends to abandon them to aggression.
I have therefore concluded that the national interests of the United States
and the cause of world stability require that we continue to give both military
and humanitarian assistance to the South Vietnamese.
Assistance to South Vietnam at this stage must be swift and adequate. Drift
and indecision invite far deeper disaster. The sums I had requested before the
major North Vietnamese offensive and the sudden South Vietnamese retreat
are obviously inadequate. Half-hearted action would be worse than none. We
must act together and act decisively.
I am therefore asking the Congress to appropriate without delay $722 million
for emergency military assistance and an initial sum of $250 million for eco-
nomic and humanitarian aid for South Vietnam.
The situation in South Vietnam is changing very rapidly, and the need for
emergency food, medicine, and refugee relief is growing by the hour. I will
work with the Congress in the days ahead to develop humanitarian assistance
to meet these very pressing needs.
Fundamental decency requires that we do everything in our power to ease
the misery and the pain of the monumental human crisis which has befallen
the people of Vietnam. Millions have fled in the face of the Communist on-
slaught and are now homeless and are now destitute. I hereby pledge in the
463
