[72]
February 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
RECESSION AND BUDGET DEFICITS
[8.] Q. Mr. President, some people believe that your economic advisers—
particularly Mr. Greenspan and Secretary Simon-would like to have this reces-
sion get somewhat deeper so that it will take a bigger bite out of inflation. Is that
a correct assessment?
THE PRESIDENT. I have spent a good many hours with Alan Greenspan as we
went over the various options in our economic and energy program. I can say
most strongly that Alan Greenspan does not want us to have more adverse
economic conditions than we have today.
He has joined with me in supporting the program that I submitted, a $16
billion tax reduction or rebate, and he has also joined with me in recom-
mending a $17 billion curtailment of certain Federal budgetary expenses.
It seems to me that this is a well-balanced program. It is not aimed at trying to
make our economic circumstances worse. It is aimed at trying to balance our
economy, so that we recover from the recession as quickly as possible and, at the
same time, avoid the potential dangers of a rekindling of double-digit inflation.
I think the Congress is cognizant of the problem. I hope the Congress acts
responsibly. And I am an optimist enough to believe they will.
Q. If that is the case, Mr. President, why is it that the deficits that you have
proposed for fiscal 1975 and fiscal 1976 amount to only a little more than 2 per-
cent of the gross national product in '75 and a little over 3 percent of the gross
national product in '76? How can you turn around a trillion-and-a-half dollar
economy with net stimulants that are that small?
THE PRESIDENT. I looked at a chart the other day that shows the deficits in our
Federal Government for the last 10 or 15 years, and the deficit that we will have
in 1976 is higher as a percentage of GNP than any deficit in the last 10 or 15
years, as I recollect.
The deficit in 1975, which is $35 billion, is among the top-ranking deficits as
a percentage of GNP. So, two of those back-to-back, in my opinion, are poten-
tially dangerous from the point of view of rekindling inflation, and they are
sufficiently stimulative to, I think, take us out of the current recession.
HIGHWAY TRUST FUNDS
[9.] Q. I am Sally Lofton, with Southeastern Newspapers. Forty million
dollars, which had been intended for highway construction in Georgia, was
included in highway trust funds impounded by President Nixon, and I was
wondering if you plan to release any of these funds?
THE PRESIDENT. Last evening I met with a number of the Governors from the
188
