[295]
June 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
we have found for the United States, have made our visit to Madrid an un-
forgettable experience which Mrs. Ford and I will long remember.
Many today question the course of the future, but I have no doubt of the
increasingly important role Spain will play in that future, in the world as a
whole and, particularly, in the West. Spain is a part, geographically and his-
torically, of Europe. Spain is a part of the transatlantic community. Accord-
ingly, I am sure the future holds for Spain a greater role in European and
Atlantic organizations of importance to both of our countries.
You have our sincere thanks and appreciation for the wonderful welcome
extended to us at all levels and during every moment of our stay. As a result
of my meetings here, I am confident that the United States and Spain, working
together, will produce a better life for our peoples and contribute to the pros-
pects of a better life for people everywhere.
NOTE: The statement was released at Madrid, Spain.
296
Remarks on Arrival at Salzburg, Austria.
June 1, 1975
Mr. Chancellor, Mrs. Kreisky, ladies and gentlemen:
Thank you for your gracious welcome to Salzburg—and I am sorry that I
tumbled in.¹
I am very pleased to have this opportunity to renew my acquaintance with
you, Mr. Chancellor, your country, and the Austrian people.
Mr. Chancellor, 20 years after the signing of the State Treaty in 1955, Austria
is a stable, prosperous country and an active participant in European and world
affairs. Your hospitality in offering Salzburg as the site for my meetings with
President Sadat reflects Austria's constructive international policy and the tra-
ditional warmth of the Austrian nation.
Mr. Chancellor, I look forward to my personal discussions with you today.
I know personally of Austria's commitment to reaching peaceful solutions to
the international problems from our productive talks in Washington last fall.
America is committed to the reduction of tension and the increase of co-
¹ On alighting from Air Force One, the President slipped and fell down the last few steps of the rain-
dampened steel ramp leading from the airplane.
754
