March 6
[125]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
plies for the men and women and children who are suffering the ravages of war.
We seek to stop the bloodshed and end the horror and the tragedy that we see
on television as rockets are fired wantonly into Phnom Penh.
I would like to be able to say that the killing would cease if we were to stop
our aid, but that is not the case. The record shows, in both Vietnam and Cam-
bodia, that Communist takeover of an area does not bring an end to violence,
but on the contrary, subjects the innocent to new horrors.
We cannot meet humanitarian needs unless we provide some military assist-
ance. Only through a combination of humanitarian endeavors and military aid
do we have a chance to stop the fighting in that country in such a way as to end
the bloodshed.
The second issue is whether the problems of Indochina will be settled by con-
quest or by negotiation. Both the Governments of Cambodia and the United
States have made vigorous and continued efforts over the last few years to bring
about a cease-fire and a political settlement.
The Cambodian Government declared a unilateral cease-fire and called for
negotiations immediately after the peace accords of January 1973. It has since
repeatedly expressed its willingness to be flexible in seeking a negotiated end to
the conflict. Its leaders have made clear that they are willing to do whatever
they can do to bring peace to the country.
The United States has backed these peace efforts. Yesterday, we made public
an outline of our unceasing efforts over the years, including six separate initia-
tives since I became President.¹
Let me assure you: We will support any negotiations and accept any outcome
that the parties themselves will agree to. As far as the United States is concerned,
the personalities involved will not themselves constitute obstacles of any kind
to a settlement.
Yet all of our efforts have been rebuffed. Peace in Cambodia has not been
prevented by our failure to offer reasonable solutions. The aggressor believes it
can win its objectives on the battlefield. This belief will be encouraged if we
cut off assistance to our friends.
We want an end to the killing and a negotiated settlement. But there is no
hope of success unless the Congress acts quickly to provide the necessary means
for Cambodia to survive.
If we abandon our allies, we will be saying to all the world that war pays.
Aggression will not stop; rather it will increase. In Cambodia, the aggressors
¹On March 5, 1975, the Department of State Office of Press Relations had made available a summary
of negotiating efforts on Cambodia.
321
