[243]
May 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
of this year, have the success that I think we are going to have, some of the
problems will be answered that you have raised.
Mr. Jones [Phil Jones, CBS News].
CAMBODIA AND VIETNAM CONFLICT
[12.] Q. You apparently had some intelligence reports about a bloodbath in
Cambodia. I am wondering if you can bring us up to date on anything in this
area in Cambodia, and whether or not there is any report of a bloodbath in
South Vietnam?
THE PRESIDENT. We do have some intelligence reports to the effect that in
Cambodia, some 80 or 90 former Cambodian officials were executed, and in
addition, their wives were executed. This is very hard intelligence; that is, I
think, very factual evidence of the bloodbath that has taken place or is in the
process of taking place in Cambodia.
Now, a turn to Vietnam. As you know, there is a very tight censorship in
South Vietnam. The news that gets out is pretty heavily controlled by the North
Vietnamese and by the Vietcong. So, we really don't have the same kind of
hard evidence there that we have had in Cambodia in the instance that I have
indicated.
But I think probably the best evidence of the probability is that 120,000-plus
South Vietnamese fled because they knew that the probability existed that if
they stayed, their life would be in jeopardy. That is the best evidence of what
probably will take place.
Q. Mr. President, if I may follow up on this—you say you don't have any
hard evidence. Do you have any report, any intelligence reports that indicate
this is going on?
THE PRESIDENT. As of the moment, we have not.
VIEWS ON THE PRESIDENCY
[13.] Q. May I ask you something, sir, and simply a matter of style and
nothing of substance. Reading Mr. Hersey, who has spent a week with you,¹
and reading others, you seem to be a kind of a peaceful, quiet man, a placid
man. Do you ever get mad at people? Do you ever chew people out? Do you
yell? Do you fire people? Do you kick people around?
THE PRESIDENT. I have learned to control my temper. I get very upset in-
ternally, but I have learned that that is not the best way to solve a problem. I do
have occasional outbursts on the golf course, but in dealing with people I have
1 See footnote 1, page 636.
650
