February 13
[91]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
review of our ongoing programs and, as we look down the road, proposing
reforms as we need them.
Now, because of the complexity and the interrelationship of domestic policy
and programs, I believe the broadest perspectives must be utilized in the Domes-
tic Council's deliberations. That is why I personally, with the deepest conviction
and support, have asked the Vice President to serve as Vice Chairman of the
Council and to personally and vigorously oversee its work.
It will, as I am sure many of you know now and, I hope, all of you will see
later, provide for the full coordination of the work of this Council with the
responsible people for my [President's] Economic Policy Board and the Energy
Resources Council. They will work in the closest relationship with one another.
And may I add that at the present I am announcing my intention to appoint
Jim Cannon as Executive Director of the Domestic Council and Assistant to
the President for Domestic Affairs. Dick Dunham will be Deputy Director of
the Domestic Council, and they, of course, will work closely with the Vice Presi-
dent in the operations of the Domestic Council and most closely with myself.
But if I might for a few moments tonight-perhaps longer than you might
like—but I am speaking, most seriously, in the special area of foreign policy; I
am not the first President to have this Vice President's wise counsel.
Nelson visited Latin America on the eve of World War II. He perceived the
danger of anti-American propaganda and the penetration, by the Axis powers,
of governments and economies of some nations in this hemisphere.
Nelson voiced, at that time, timely concern to President Roosevelt in 1940,
over a year before Pearl Harbor. In designating Nelson to coordinate inter-
American affairs, President Roosevelt was not thinking about Rockefeller the
Republican, he was thinking about Rockefeller the American.
Nelson improved relations with Latin America during the darkest days of
World War II. In 1945, President Roosevelt appointed him Assistant Secretary
of State for American Republic Affairs. Nelson contributed much to the con-
cept of mutual security that led to the Rio Pact, to NATO, and to enlightened
international cooperation.
Now, during World War II, I had the good fortune to serve aboard a Navy
aircraft carrier. I began to see at that time the islands of the Pacific and Amer-
ica's links with the world in a far broader perspective than I did as a young
man in Michigan.
When I took my oath as a Member of the Congress in January of 1949,
Arthur Vandenberg was senior Senator from Michigan and the chairman of
the Committee of Foreign Relations. The Senator at that time was concerned
249
