January 17
[34]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:58 p.m. in the East
Room at the White House to members of the com-
mittee who were in Washington to attend their
annual meeting.
In his opening remarks, the President referred to
Secretary of the Treasury William E. Simon, John
D. deButts, 1974 committee chairman, and Gabriel
Hauge, 1975 chairman.
William M. Batten was 1973 committee chairman
and Harold S. Geneen was 1963 chairman.
34
Remarks at the Awards Ceremony of the Citizens Conference on
State Legislatures. January 17, 1975
Jerry Leonard, Staff Grady, and distinguished awardees:
Let me, at the outset, congratulate the Citizens Conference on State Legisla-
tures and the awardees—one from Texas, one from Louisiana, and one from
Wisconsin-plus the State Legislature of Iowa and John Gardner of Common
Cause.
I think there is a greater awareness today-much more so than when I started
my legislative career-that State legislatures perform an invaluable function, a
more and more important function today than ever before.
There is an old saying that a house is as strong as its foundation. It seems
to me that our government today—and I use it in the broadest sense—is strength-
ened by the firm foundation that State legislatures give to government through-
out the whole United States.
I think if we look at history, we find that some of our basic freedoms orig-
inated in our earliest days from actions taken in the respective States. The
Virginia action in 1776 set forth the basic freedoms that were subsequently
incorporated in our own Constitution.
I, of course, in 25 years, had the opportunity of working in a legislative body
and, as a result of that experience, had literally hundreds of opportunities to
work with State legislators as well as legislatures. And it is my impression that
the greater emphasis today on the importance, the essentiality of affirmative ac-
tion at the State level is going to grow and grow and grow.
So, I congratulate not only the awardees but the people who are working to
make the State legislatures a more vital part of our system of government, and
I wish them well in the days and months and years ahead.
So, Staff and Jerry, I look forward to the participation in recognizing the
individuals, in recognizing the State Legislature of Iowa for these commenda-
tions on this occasion.
57
