[149]
March 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
While we wait for the Congress to act, I would like to remind the American
people that their voluntary actions can make an important contribution toward
achieving our economic and energy goals. Recently, the Senate of the United
States adopted a resolution sponsored by Senator Jennings Randolph of West
Virginia and 67 other Senators which calls upon me to proclaim an Energy
Conservation Month, during which voluntary actions to conserve energy might
be intensified.
I welcome this action by the Senate and join the sponsors of the resolution in
urging all Americans to renew their efforts to use energy wisely and more
efficiently in their homes, offices, schools, farms, industries, commercial estab-
lishments, and travel.
The opportunities for voluntary energy conservation and the benefits of
conservation are clear. Last September, I established a goal for Federal Govern-
ment agencies to hold energy consumption in fiscal year 1975 to levels 15 per-
cent below 1973. I am pleased to report that, during the first 6 months of fiscal
year 1975, the Federal agencies have held consumption approximately 23 per-
cent below 1973 levels—a savings equivalent to 46 million barrels of oil and a
savings in energy costs to Federal taxpayers of $425 million. In addition, the
Energy Resources Council is working closely with industry and others to find
ways of conserving energy.
The voluntary actions we have taken have made an important contribution,
and I call upon the leaders of business and industry, State and local governments,
and all the American people to renew and intensify their voluntary energy con-
servation efforts. The Senate has called for designation of a 1-month period for
intensified energy conservation actions. But I am confident that all the Senators
who sponsored Senate Resolution 59 will join me in urging all our citizens to
make energy conservation a year-round effort.
We know that voluntary actions alone cannot solve our Nation's energy and
economic problems. Action by the Congress is needed on the measures I have
proposed to increase domestic production and to reduce demand, all of which
are essential to the solution of our problem. I trust that Senate Resolution 59
is but the first of the constructive actions that we can expect from the Congress.
390
