March 13
[134]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Let's try to remember, as we can, bearing each individual's respective responsi-
bility, America's interests, and the search for social as well as economic prog-
ress—our objectives, yours as well as mine, are as old as human nature. Each
man and each woman are the roots of his or her own survival.
So, it is so true in democracy. Democracy has within it the roots, as well as
the strengths, to save itself. And that strength is national unity and a strong,
strong national purpose.
Many Americans see precious little advantage in the Nation in the debate and
the delay that has characterized Washington in the past several months. Rather,
they are convinced that action, concerted action, is now precious to our country
and may, in the long, long run, prove priceless.
It is said that an atmosphere of compromise now pervades Washington. I
believe that is correct and that is good, and I would like to see that mood develop
into a movement, into agreement as well as action for America.
It seems to me, as I travel around the country, as I read the mail, and as I talk
to people here in Washington, Americans see delay, Americans see division,
lack of concerted action, and they don't like it. They want to see some collective
bargaining between the executive and the legislative branches of their Federal
Government.
I have said, for example, that I am willing to compromise on a tax cut, and I
repeat here this evening that I am willing and anxious to achieve some com-
promise in this area. However, it is also my observation that the American
people will not stand still for a government that is standing still.
The American people, for example, want a tax cut now. I think more of us
ought to start listening to America instead of listening to ourselves here in
Washington.
It is my further observation that I hear America calling for action, reasonable
action in a reasonable amount of time. I suggest in the tax cut area action by
the end of March, this year.
It is my strong belief and deep conviction that we ought to get to work. Let
us give recession and unemployment a new "one-two," the President and the
Congress hitting both of them simultaneously.
It is my belief that if we do so, we will put all our workers back to work so
free collective bargaining can flourish in the future.
Thank you very much.
[At this point, Postmaster General Benjamin F. Bailar presented the President with the first
folio of the commemorative stamp. The President then resumed speaking.]
347
