[32]
January 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
5-year gasoline rationing program would be accepted. And it really isn't the
answer, because it wouldn't provide any incentives for new sources of energy in
the United States, and that is what we have to do, is provide new sources of
energy.
Now I know, in the program we proposed, there are some people in the
Congress and maybe some of you who are concerned about geographical dis-
crimination. I have been assured by Secretary of the Interior and by Mr. Zarb
that there will be no adverse, undue hardships to New England or the Northeast
United States.
I have their firm commitment that with the taxes imposed or import duties
levied on foreign oil imports, there will be no undue hardships in any geograph-
ical part of the United States. I have also been assured by the people in the execu-
tive branch that no industry will suffer undue hardships.
So, if you do have any problems, there is the man to see, right there.²
[Laughter]
All right, now let's turn to one other subject. As we examined the problem of
how to increase our supply of energy, as we tried to find ways to cut down on use
through conservation, we had to take a look at the problems of energy vis-a-vis
environment. Let me give you an illustration of how cooperation in the executive
branch of the Government has brought about unanimity, and I think we have
now a program that will permit us to keep a high standard of emission control
on automobiles and at the same time get written commitments from the auto-
motive people that they will increase the efficiency of the automobiles in the
next 5 years by 40 percent.
They have agreed to this program in writing, if we would support the change
of the emission standards to be the standards in the State of California. You
really have three standards. You have the current Federal standards, you have
the California standards, and you have the standards written in the law that was
passed several years ago that are higher than all the other two.
The Environmental Protection Agency, under Russ Train, has agreed to sup-
port a change in the law as long as we agreed to support the California stand-
ards. This means that we will get substantial savings in the utilization of gasoline
in new automobiles. I can't recall how many-I think it is 500,000 barrels a day,
isn't it, Frank? We save 500,000 barrels a day with a 40-percent increase in
efficiency for automobiles.
All I am trying to say is that we have worked extremely hard to get a sound
2 The President was referring to Rogers C. B. Morton, Secretary of the Interior and Chairman of the
Energy Resources Council.
54
