[278]
May 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
the example we set, in the kind of a country we build and in the national char-
acter that we sustain, we can erect the greatest monument of all to those we
honor here today.
They will not have died in vain and their loved ones will not have suffered
in vain if we vow to live our lives in the cause of honor, freedom, and justice
that they so gallantly served.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:25 a.m. at the
Tomb of the Unknowns. In his opening remarks, he
referred to Robert S. Sutphin, president of the Grand
Army of the Republic Memorial Day Corporation.
279
Statement on Signing the Amtrak Improvement Act of 1975.
May 26, 1975
I HAVE signed H.R. 4975, the Amtrak Improvement Act of 1975.
This bill provides authorizations for Federal support to Amtrak for an addi-
tional 27-month period, through fiscal 1977. It will provide the Amtrak Board
of Directors with the flexibility necessary to effectively manage the Corpora-
tion's affairs. This should result in improved intercity rail passenger service. I
expect the Corporation to develop plans and programs consistent with realistic
funding authorized by this bill, thus eliminating the past practice of ever-
escalating Federal subsidies over which neither the Congress nor the execu-
tive branch had effective control.
The bill authorizes procedures which enable Amtrak to modify its system of
routes and services consistent with the goal of making rail passenger service
an effective part of our national transportation system. It is regrettable, however,
that the criteria for exercising this authority must be submitted to the Congress
with the possibility of disapproval by either the House or the Senate within 60
days.
The Attorney General advises me that this provision provides for an uncon-
stitutional exercise of Congressional power. I am seriously concerned about the
increasing frequency with which Congress passes legislation containing such
provision. I have, nevertheless, signed H.R. 4975 because the Nation needs the
important passenger rail service it will provide.
Once the new procedures for adding and eliminating routes are established,
Amtrak will have a sensible basis on which to make determinations on dropping
routes which are inefficient or adding service which boosts our overall trans-
724
