April 25
[217]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Obviously, a lot has happened since I left Yale Law School in 1941. I prac-
ticed law. I joined the Navy. I was elected to Congress, became minority leader,
Vice President, and now President. But no matter how far I have traveled,
something from Yale has always followed with me—and I'm not just referring
to those letters from the Alumni Fund-[laughter]-but something very special,
something that adds to character, something that clings to our character, and in
time, something that becomes our character.
It's rather hard to put feelings into words, but the motto of our school is,
"For God, for Country, and for Yale," and I think that says it all.
The 150th anniversary of this great law school, one of the outstanding in-
stitutions of the world for the study of law, suggests better than I the subject
for my remarks this evening. On May 1, we celebrate Law Day. Most of you
in this audience have devoted your academic years and a good part of your lives
to the development and to the promulgation of the law.
Today, as President, I sense and I think the American people sense that we
are facing a basic and a very serious problem of disregard for the law.
I would like to talk with you tonight about law and the spirit of abiding by
the law. I ask you to think along with me about the concern of so many
Americans about the problem of crime. And let us start with the great Pre-
amble of our Constitution which seeks to insure domestic tranquillity. Have
we achieved on our streets and in our homes that sense of domestic tranquillity
so essential to the pursuit of happiness?
With the launching of our Bicentennial year, it has been argued that the
American Revolution was the most successful in history because the principles
of the Revolution-liberty and equality under the law--became the functioning
constitutional principles of our great Government.
The Founding Fathers governed well and governed prudently, with restraint
and respect for justice and law. There was no reign of terror, no repression, no
dictatorship. The institutions they have founded became durable and effective.
Because of all of this, we tend to think of them now as respectable and con-
servative. But the fact is that ours remains the great revolution of modern
history, and we should be proud of it.
A leading feature of the American Revolution was its devotion to justice
under law. Once one gets past those two glorious opening paragraphs, the
Declaration of Independence reads very much like a legal brief.
The argument was made that sound government and just laws had to be
restored to the land. The theme was that independence was needed to restore a
representative government of laws in order to secure liberty.
589
