[170]
April 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
170
Statement on the Death of President Chiang Kai-shek
of the Republic of China. April 5, 1975
I WAS deeply saddened at the death of the President of the Republic of China.
Chiang Kai-shek. His passing marks the end of an era in Chinese history.
President Chiang was a man of firm integrity, high courage, and deep polit-
ical conviction. The last surviving major Allied leader of the Second World
War, he will be remembered by people from all walks of life and from every
part of the world for his dignity and dedication to principles in which he
believed.
Mrs. Ford joins me in behalf of all Americans in expressing our sincere con-
dolences to Madame Chiang, to President Chiang's family, and to his country-
men in this time of sorrow.
NOTE: Chiang Kai-shek was President of the Repub-
lic of China from 1948 until his death in Taipei,
Taiwan, on April 5, 1975. The statement was re-
leased at Palm Springs, Calif.
Vice President Rockefeller headed the U.S. delega-
tion to the funeral of President Chiang in Taiwan
on April 16.
171
Address in Las Vegas at the Annual Convention of the National
Association of Broadcasters. April 7, 1975
Thank you very much, Vince—and I can pronounce Wasilewski. President
Dickoff, my wife, Betty, Secretary Kissinger, Senator Howard Cannon, Con-
gressman Santini, Andy Ockershausen-that's not bad, is it, Andy?—distin-
guished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
Let me personally express my appreciation for the very warm welcome and
reception that you have given to our great Secretary of State, a person of un-
believable wisdom and, I think, the finest background and knowledge in the
field of foreign policy of anybody in my lifetime—and of course, his inde-
fatigable dedication.
I also am most grateful for the warm reception that you gave on behalf of
my wife, Betty, who celebrates her 39th birthday tomorrow-[laughter]—and
of course, my good friend Howard Cannon.
Betty could tell you some things about me, but Howard Cannon was chair-
man of the committee in the Senate that investigated my life from birth to
440
