January 4
[13]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
poor.
should be developed and operated with great sensitivity to the needs of the
But I also feel strongly that those needs will be better served when programs
that benefit the disadvantaged are considered and managed together.
To this end, I have ordered the development of a reorganization plan, as
authorized by this bill, for my review.
I am also considering sending to the Congress proposals that will eliminate
unnecessary organizational impediments contained in this measure. These
proposals would assure more orderly and efficient management of Federal pro-
grams to aid the poor.
Finally, to avoid waste of effort that might occur, I will not seek funding for
duplicate program authorities provided in the enrolled bill.
I applaud the efforts of the Congress in helping bring to an end the stalemate
over this legislation. I look forward to making these programs an effective part
of our overall effort to serve the real needs of the disadvantaged.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 14449, approved January 4, 1975, is Public Law 93-644 (88 Stat. 2291).
13
Statement on Signing a Bill Establishing the Lowell
Historic Canal District Commission. January 4, 1975
I HAVE approved H.R. 14689, a bill "to provide for a plan for the preservation,
interpretation, development, and use of the historic, cultural, and architectural
resources of the Lowell Historic Canal District in Lowell, Massachusetts, and
for other purposes."
This legislation establishes a nine-member commission for the purposes out-
lined with an authorization of $150,000 to support the work of the commission.
In signing this bill into law, I associate myself fully with the view of the
House Interior Committee that "Congress would be required to take additional
affirmative action before any federal commitment to the implementation of the
plan would be made.”
This view makes it clear that none of the provisions of this bill, or its author-
ization of Federal funds to support the work of the commission, constitutes
any commitment to future Federal funding or participation in the Canal Dis-
trict project. Enactment of the bill does not alter the criteria determining
whether Federal support will be provided areas such as the Lowell Historic
Canal District.
13
