February 10
[82]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
natural gas policy is changed by Congressional action, we will be faced in a short
time with hard choices on supplying either homes or industries across the Nation.
And in this bill that I put together with the help and assistance of my White
House and departmental aides, we have a proposal for the deregulation of
natural gas. Right now, because of natural gas shortages, I have read horror
stories of factory closings and lost jobs. This is true in a number of our east coast
and Northeastern United States States. I keep telling the Governors up there,
why don't they help us get some votes in the Congress and they won't be faced
with these kinds of problems.
Well, it took the Congress 4 years—as Secretary Morton knows-to pass the
Alaska pipeline bill. On April 18, 1973, almost 2 years ago, Congress was asked
to deregulate new natural gas. Only one House of the Congress, the Senate, even
bothered to hold public hearings. I personally have sent three special messages to
the Congress pleading for this legislation. I regret that nothing has happened
affirmatively.
Well, in sum, the Congress has done virtually nothing about natural gas
policy for the past 2 years, much less come up with a plan to meet the expected
shortages. This Nation cannot remove the insecurity of our dependence on
foreign sources of oil while we consciously hold back assistance to producers
right here at home, producers who help make us secure and independent. We
simply must have capital investment if we are to discover new sources of oil and
new natural gas, and if we are to put people back to work solving our problems.
We will not get help from anyone except ourselves. Quite frankly, the future
of this country is in our hands.
The United States will not bring about lower world oil prices without some
evidence of seriousness of our intentions. The United States will not rally our
allies to stand with us in solving the international problems unless we offer some
evidence of the seriousness of our intentions. And I might say parenthetically
here, removing the power of the President to force Congress to act isn't very
good evidence of the seriousness of our intentions.
The American people will not believe there is an energy crisis unless the
President and the Congress offer some evidence of the seriousness of our inten-
tions, and I can assure you without hesitation or qualification, I will continue
to demonstrate the total seriousness of my intentions.
As I said in my State of the Union Message to the Congress on January 16, I
believe in America's capabilities. In the next 10 years, I envision 200 major
nuclear powerplants, 250 new coal mines, 150 major coal-fired powerplants,
30 major new oil refineries, 20 major new synthetic fuel plants, the insulation
213
