[236]
May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
and skilled manpower, of our inexhaustible energy, of the inventive and pro-
ductive genius of our free, competitive economic system, and of our massive
but controlled military strength.
Wherever the United States Ship Nimitz shows her flag, she will be seen
as we see her now, a solid symbol of United States strength, United States re-
solve—made in America and manned by Americans. She is a movable part and
parcel of our country, a self-contained city at sea plying the international waters
of the world in defense of our national interests. Whether her mission is one
of defense, diplomacy, or humanity, the Nimitz will command awe and admira-
tion from some, caution and circumspection from others, and respect from all.
There is no need for me to dwell on the importance of aircraft carriers in
today's and tomorrow's defense planning-though as an old carrier man myself,
I might like that role. During recent days, I think it is worthy to note, we have
seen the most convincing demonstration of their readiness and their flexibility
in the successful execution of national policy.
Without the five aircraft carriers which served as the nucleus of our forces
operating off South Vietnam, without the skill and the heroic performance
of Marine Corps and naval aviation and support personnel, without the Air
Force helicopter crews who operated from the carrier decks, we could not have
rescued all of the remaining American citizens and thousands of endangered
Vietnamese from Saigon within 20 hours. And I congratulate, on behalf of all
of you, the work that was done on that occasion.
The Nimitz joins the fleet at an auspicious moment when our determination
to strengthen our ties with allies across both great oceans and to work for peace
and stability around the world requires clear demonstration. Along with our
other forces worldwide, the Nimitz will make critically important contributions
in our continuing quest for a peaceful planet, a planet whose surface is more
than 70 percent ocean.
As I see the United States Ship Nimitz as a symbol of the vast power, the
protective or productive skill and economic strength of America, so will others
around the world. To all, this great ship is visible evidence of our commitment
to friends and allies and our capability to maintain those commitments. But
for Americans, especially, she is also a symbol of the man whose name she bears.
The grandson of a seafaring German immigrant, who grew up in the great
State of Texas and never lost his pride in his native State, Chester W. Nimitz
started from the smoke of Pearl Harbor and carried the fight to the enemy. His
superb leadership and the valor of more than 2 million American fighting men
culminated on the deck of the U.S.S. Missouri 4 years later, as he signed the
632
