April 16
[189]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Q. Mr. President, you keep talking about commitments and promises, and
we are getting hung up on these words. In the light of this controversy, why
should the Thieu-Nixon correspondence not be released?
The President. It is not the usual custom for correspondence between heads
of state, as I understand it, to be released. I can say from my own experience,
not referring to the correspondence to which you refer, that if it is expected
that such correspondence will be public, I think on some occasions or in some
instances you would have to compromise on what you would say. I think that
would be true of any correspondence that I received from any other head of state.
If you are going to have a frank, free exchange, I think it has to be between
the heads of state.
Now, I have personally reviewed the correspondence to which you refer be-
tween President Nixon and President Thieu, and I can assure you that there
was nothing in any of those communications that was different from what was
stated as our public policy.
The words are virtually identical, with some variation, of course, but the
intent, the commitments are identical with that which was stated as our coun-
try's policy and our country's commitment.
REPUBLIC OF CHINA
[7.] Q. Sir, on that question of your trip to Red China that Mr. Isaacs
[Norman Isaacs, News Journal, Wilmington, Del.] raised, it seems that down
the road it has been speculated that the policy or the purpose of détente is to
establish normal diplomatic relations with a country that you described last
Thursday as having one-quarter of the population of the world. That would
assume the establishment of an Embassy in Peking which would automatically
assume the derecognition of some kind of Taiwan. If that is in the cards, what
kind of guarantees would you seek, what kind of quid pro quo would you seek
from Peking to insure the continued existence of Taiwan?
THE PRESIDENT. I honestly don't believe that I should discuss, under these
circumstances, any of the agenda or any of the details of the continuation of
our relations with the People's Republic of China.
We have excellent relations, as I am sure you know, with the Republic of
China. We value that relationship. We are concerned, of course, and will con-
tinue to be concerned about the Republic of China's security and stability. And
it doesn't seem to me at this time, in this forum, that I should discuss any
negotiations that might take place between the United States and the People's
Republic of China.
499
