[207]
April 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
and in the White House I will do as I did in the Congress, work for that
objective for our national security.
While I am on the subject of our merchant marine, let me add my very
strong personal congratulations to Paul Hall, president of the Seafarers' Inter-
national for this wonderful award that he has received.ยน There is a man who
believes in America, has fought for America, and will continue to be in the
leadership in keeping America strong in the future. Congratulations, Paul. It is
a well-deserved tribute to a great union leader and a great American.
Our Navy also has entered into a time of challenge. Like the rest of our
Armed Forces, its cost, even its purpose, is being questioned by many serious,
sincere Americans, in and out of the Congress. No doubt some of this question-
ing results from our long and very tragic American experience in Indochina.
No doubt, some stems from very understandable desires to spend money on
plowshares rather than on swords, to put our resources into so-called social
programs instead of into defense. But to keep America at peace, to enable us to
make the kind of social progress we really want, we must keep America strong
today and strong tomorrow.
One of those invaluable keys to achieving peace is a strong, modern
American fleet. The Navy is still a very major instrument for resolving crises
short of war. Its very presence in a trouble spot serves as a deterrent. It carries
supplies, shows the flag, and provides a very flexible, but yet very powerful
force that can help defuse tension in an area before it deteriorates into a crisis.
It is a very vital part of our total defense establishment in peace as well as in
war.
Let me put it in, if I might, even more concrete terms. Since 1958, our Navy
and Marines have served in quick response to emergency situations 49 different
times. The nature of the response, of course, varied from 32 cases in which it
was a matter of showing the flag, to emergency interventions to protect Amer-
ican lives, property, and our national interest.
Let me give you several examples. In 1958, Navy and Marine units helped
to restore order in riot-torn Lebanon and to protect American interests. In 1962,
they enforced the quarantine on Soviet ships and helped to end the Cuban missile
crisis. In 1965, they saved American lives and helped restore order in the Domin-
ican Republic. In 1970, they helped to prevent disturbances in Jordan from
erupting into another Middle Eastern crisis. And right now in Southeast Asia,
Navy and Marine forces are standing by to assist in humanitarian relief and
evacuation efforts, or to carry out any mission assigned to them.
ยน Mr. Hall received the League's Robert M. Thompson Award for Outstanding Civilian Leadership.
564
