June 16
[331]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
standing personal qualities were the roots of his
success.
He stayed with us for only 3 years, but was there
ever another man who came to a country as a
representative of a victorious power and after 3
years' work left behind him a reputation which
President Kennedy fittingly circumscribed by calling
John J. McCloy the godfather to German freedom?
On the second of July, 1973, the President of the
United States invited the Federal Republic of Ger-
many to contribute to the celebrations in memory of
the American Revolution of 1776. We have gladly
accepted that offer, for on that anniversary our
nation, our Republic, too, celebrates the birthday of
free Western democracy.
The John J. McCloy Fund for German-American
Exchanges is one of our contributions. It will be
equipped with a stock of $1 million. The fund will
be set up under the aegis of the American Council on
Germany, with whom John J. McCloy has been
associated for many years and whose chairman he
still is.
The fund shall serve to interest gifted young
people of both countries in continued close German-
American relations and to equip them with the
necessary knowledge and information. The aim is
to exchange young politicians, representatives of
free professions, young trade unionists, and youth
leaders, to arrange German-American conferences,
and to support important publications on German-
American relations.
One might ask, are there not already thousands of
links in all fields? Is it useful and necessary to add
another? Can such a fund produce anything new?
I think it is useful and it is necessary. What deter-
mines today what nations think of each other?
History and the mass media are the main factors.
No doubt both help to enhance understanding, but
they can also produce false opinions.
Do people in this country, when the name of
Germany is mentioned, not frequently think first
of the atrocities committed under dictatorship? Is
the general public already aware of the fact that
there is a totally different, free democratic Germany
today that has nothing, indeed nothing, in common
with those 12 years?
What are things like in my country? Of course,
we learn something about America every day in the
press, through radio and television. This is a land
of justice, but it is not always the positive side that
appears in the mass media. It is often the negative
ones. This is a land of freedom, but the reports on
freedom meet with less attention than the reports
on violence.
This is why I think that the John J. McCloy Fund
is useful and necessary. It can help to do away with
rash opinions about each other. The fund alone will
not be able to do this, but it will make an essential
contribution to this.
If it shows itself worthy of the man after whom
it is named, if it helps us to get to know each other
as you, Mr. McCloy, know and view Germany with
criticism, fairness, and full of sympathy, it has
served its purpose.
Mr. McCloy, I now take great pleasure in present-
ing to you the deed of establishment of the John
J. McCloy Fund for German-American Exchanges.
Thank you.
MR. MCCLOY
I don't want to keep you out in the rain, but I
can't let all those accolades be cast on my head with-
out disavowing them to some degree.
When I think of the number of people that were
involved in this period which the President has re-
ferred to, which President Scheel has referred to,
there are many names that come to my mind that
I wish this fund could be more appropriately named.
I am thinking of my great predecessor, that
soldier-statesman, Lucius Clay, whom I succeeded,
and President Truman himself and his very brilliant
Secretary of State, Dean Acheson, and a number of
others.
But I can also think of some Germans that could
be named, like Konrad Adenauer. Konrad Adenauer
used to have a little trick of calling me the pro-
consul from time to time. He was very sensitive to
all the Roman traditions in his homeland, and of
course, all over the Rhineland there were all sorts
of Roman reminders, reminders of the Roman con-
quest, so I never quite knew how to take it.
I would also like to mention Chancellor Erhard,
whose effective work in the administration of the
Marshall Plan had a great deal to do with its success.
Secretary Kissinger just reminded me that I had
recently my 80th birthday. I have been getting too
many reminders of the fact that I am very old,
but I was thinking the other day about that.
Here is my 80th birthday, and this is the Bicen-
tennial of the life of the country. My one lifespan
represents 40 percent of the entire life of the Nation.
It shows that either I am awful old, Mr. President,
or the span of the life of this country is very short.
[Laughter] Well, it is short, and both our countries
have a very short span.
The Federal Republic I used to refer, Mr. Scheel,
Mr. President, to some sense of disillusionment on
the part of those who were not part of the old
period, some feeling of cynicism and some lack of
sense of responsibility for the past.
There are many noble things that occurred in the
genesis of the Federal Republic. I think of the names
and the men who emerged at that time, and some
noble spirits, men and women, who this youth of
today can very well take great satisfaction in having
association with.
My great hero statesman-there are a number of
them, but I suppose the one that I think of most as
821
