[85]
February 11
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think $300 million in further military assistance is the
right answer to give the South Vietnamese the necessary military hardware to
defend themselves. Anything less than that makes their defense of their country
less effective, and I think they ought to be given enough to defend themselves.
And $300 million, according to my advisers, is the minimum for that purpose.
FORMER PRESIDENT TRUMAN
[16.] Q. Mr. President, Peter Kumpa of the Baltimore Sun. President Tru-
man is one of your heroes, and you share some things in common with him—a
Midwestern background, succession from the Vice Presidency, and a so-called
do-nothing Congress. But Mr. Truman was a Democrat and a champion of the
little guy. He was a spender for social causes. Now, you are not a spender. You
are a Republican and a champion of free enterprise. Where did your admiration
for Mr. Truman begin? How do you feel you are like him, and how do you feel
you are different?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I never alleged that I was like him; I simply have a
great admiration for him. I admire him because he was forthright. He believed
in certain things, whether I did or not, and he was willing to go out and fight
for them. I think that is a very admirable trait.
Mr. Truman deeply believed in maintaining a strong U.S., both militarily and
economically. I share that view. I believe that we insure the peace by being
strong, and Mr. Truman, by his various actions, felt the same way. And Mr. Tru-
man wanted a strong domestic economy. I admired that. I believe in it. For
those traits and those basic views, whether we agreed on every detail, I admire
him tremendously.
Q. As I recall, Grand Rapids was one of the very first stops on Mr. Truman's
whistlestop campaign in 1948. He was there on a Monday morning in the rain,
and 25,000 people showed up. Were you there to see him that time when you
were running for Congress, and is that the kind of road you would like to
emulate in 1976?
The President. Well, I am not sure I was there. That was my first campaign,
and I was probably out talking to some of my good agricultural constituents or
making speeches elsewhere. But I was glad that he came to Grand Rapids. I got
a taste of the kind of campaign that he initiated, carried out, and was successful.
I think you have to be aggressive. I think you have to be forthright. I think
you have to be candid. And Mr. Truman was all of those put together. It was
a successful campaign. It might be necessary to do it in 1976.
230
