June 19
[341]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
guns for criminal purposes. I also propose further Federal restrictions on so-
called Saturday night specials.
We can and must make our legal system what it was always intended—a
means of insuring domestic tranquillity and making America safe for decent
and law-abiding citizens.
This is a matter of deep, personal concern to all Americans. So, I urge the
Congress to reflect this concern for the victims of crime by acting on this mes-
sage in a prompt, positive, and nonpartisan spirit.
To provide more details concerning the message and the program that we
have put together, I will now ask the Attorney General, Mr. Edward Levi, to
fill you in on the details.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:32 p.m. to reporters assembled in the Briefing Room at the White House.
341
Special Message to the Congress on Crime.
June 19, 1975
To the Congress of the United States:
I address this message to the Congress on a subject that touches the lives of
all Americans: crime.
Two months ago, at the celebration of the 150th anniversary of the Yale Law
School, I spoke about law and respect for the spirit of the law.
Law makes human society possible. It pledges safety to every member so that
the company of fellow human beings can be a blessing instead of a threat. It
is the instrument through which we seek to fulfill the promise of our Consti-
tution: "to insure domestic tranquility."
But America has been far from successful in dealing with the sort of crime
that obsesses America day and night—I mean street crime, crime that invades
our neighborhoods and our homes-murders, robberies, rapes, muggings, hold-
ups, breakins—the kind of brutal violence that makes us fearful of strangers
and afraid to go out at night.
I sense, and I think the American people sense, that we are facing a basic
and very serious problem of disregard for the law. Because of crime in our
streets and in our homes, we do not have domestic tranquility.
Ever since the first Presidential message on crime, in 1965, strenuous Fed-
eral efforts, as well as State and local initiatives, have been undertaken to
839
