[283]
May 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
First, I will impose an additional $1 import fee on foreign crude oil and 60
cents on refined products, effective June 1. I gave the Congress its 60 days plus an
extra 30 days to do something—but nothing has been done since January. Higher
fees will further discourage the consumption of imported fuel and may generate
some constructive action when the Congress comes back.
Second, as I directed on April 30, the Federal Energy Administration has
completed public hearings on decontrol of old domestic oil. I will submit a
decontrol plan to Congress shortly after it reconvenes. Along with it, I will urge
the Congress to pass a windfall profits tax with a plowback provision.
These two measures would prevent unfair gains by oil companies from
decontrol prices, furnish a substantial incentive to increase domestic energy
production, and encourage conservation.
When I talk about energy, I am talking about jobs. Our American economy
runs on energy—no energy, no jobs. In the long run, it is just that simple.
The sudden fourfold increase in foreign oil prices and the 1973 embargo
helped to throw us into this recession. We are on our way out of this recession.
Another oil embargo could throw us back. We cannot continue to depend on the
price and supply whims of others. The Congress cannot drift, dawdle, and debate
forever with America's future.
I need your help to energize this Congress into comprehensive action. I will
continue to press for my January program, which is still the only total energy
program there is.
I cannot sit here idly while nothing is done. We must get on with the job
right now.
Thank you and good night.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:31 p.m. from the Oval Office at the White House. The address was broad-
cast live on radio and television.
284
Statement on the Death of George A. Lincoln.
May 28, 1975
I JOIN with the many friends and colleagues of the late Gen. George A. Lin-
coln in paying tribute to this patriotic American who dedicated his life to the
service of our country. General Lincoln was a renowned West Point scholar in
the social sciences for more than 20 years and was a respected educator through-
732
