[57]
January 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
tion to this joint enterprise. A start has already been made—an international
energy program, an international energy agency, and an international financial
facility have been created.
Consultations such as you and I will have today and tomorrow are setting the
stage for further cooperation. Your Government plays a very essential part. We
recognize and we applaud the support that Britain has shown for strengthened
international cooperation and your contribution to dealing with the global prob-
lems of inflation, food, and energy.
Mr. Prime Minister, I look forward with pleasure to the discussions that we
will have on the major security, political, and economic issues before our two
countries. As befits talks between close friends, I know that they will be wide-
ranging and candid. They will confirm our mutual trust and serve our common
goals.
Mr. Prime Minister, you and your party are most welcome in our country.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:41 a.m. on the
South Lawn at the White House where Prime
Minister Wilson was given a formal welcome with
full military honors. Prime Minister Wilson
responded as follows:
Mr. President:
First, may I thank you for your very warm wel-
come, symbolic in every way of the close friendship
and the very real ties which, as you have said, have
always existed between our countries over the gen-
erations.
It is today a privilege that the Foreign Secretary
[James Callaghan] and I should have the oppor-
tunity to join with you and the Secretary of State
in what I am sure will be wide-ranging and deep
discussions about the problems we face together as
friends, as partners, and as allies.
We could not be meeting at a time of greater
moment for the causes for which our two countries
have worked and fought over the years-the con-
tinuing strength to protect and fortify peace and
to bring security to all our peoples, and especially
at this time, our declared pledges to our own peoples
and to the wider world of our determination to meet
this new and menacing world economic crisis.
For we know that the urgency of meeting this
challenge is not simply a question of economic
mechanisms and economic institutions; it is vital for
the economic security, the jobs, and the living
standards of the millions of families whose interests
we are here to protect and to serve.
Mr. President, I thank you.
58
Statement Announcing Extension of the Program for the
Return of Vietnam Era Draft Evaders and Military
Deserters. January 30, 1975
LAST September I announced a program of earned return for those who were
draft evaders and military absentees during the Vietnam conflict.
This program was intended to reach a broad group of young Americans who
had been convicted, charged, investigated, or who were still sought for viola-
tions of the Military Selective Service Act or of the Uniform Code of Military
134
