[352]
June 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
of the most amazing comebacks in the shortest possible time of any political
party that I have seen or read about. Let's review very quickly some of these
difficulties.
About a year ago, we were, unfortunately, being exposed to inflation of 10
or 12 percent on an annual basis. After some good, sound policies, constructive,
firm, we are now down to inflation of about 6 percent. We have cut it 50 per-
cent. That is not satisfactory, but let me assure you, we are on the right path.
About 6 months ago it was perfectly obvious that we were faced with a
serious recession. Again, because of sound policy, firm hands, and a dedication
to doing what is right, all of the experts tell me that we are bottomed out. And
I can assure you, as I look at the statistics, we see a good many more bright
clouds than dark ones, and we are going to continue and we are going to make
it.
Now, let me make another observation. After the last election, in November
of 1974, we were faced with overwhelming odds in the House and in the
Senate. The opposition party controlled the Congress by a better than two-
thirds majority. In other words, they had two for every one of us, and a few
plus, and there were many predictions of what their legislative course would
be. And as I read their program I must say I was fearful and apprehensive, and
I should have been-except we have found that the Republicans in the Con-
gress have unified in the House under John Rhodes and in the Senate under
Senator Scott, and the net result has been that we have been able to stem the
tide of unsound legislation.
I have had to undertake some hard decisions and veto a few bills that
shouldn't have become law, and the Republicans, with the help of a number
of wise and discerning Democrats, have actually sustained those vetoes.
So, despite the odds that we faced following that election, we are able to
keep a steady and firm hand on the legislative tiller, and I believe that as we
move ahead in the months before us, the Congress will, hopefully, become more
responsible.
And I can assure you that it has been a great privilege and pleasure for me
to work with Senator Scott and the Republicans in the Senate and with John
Rhodes and the Republicans in the House. We are a good team, and we are going
to continue that way.
I have always felt in the 13 elections that I participated in as a candidate that
what was good for the country was the best politics, and that is true for Demo-
crats as well as Republicans.
And it is my judgment, as I talk to people, as I read communications that
864
