May 30
[290]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
rangement now. Would you tell us the differences, as you see them, between
those two relationships and what ought to be done with them?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the comment that was included in my prepared text
did not refer to France's permanent relationship. The comment in the text had
specific relationship to the circumstances involving Greece.
As you know, following the Cyprus difficulties of last summer, Greece made
a decision to terminate its previous relationship with the allies. It is now in a
different relationship than any one of the others in the Alliance.
It is a relationship, however, that we hope, once the Greek-Turkish dispute
is resolved over Cyprus, that Greece will return to its previous status within
the Alliance. And of course, the meetings that have been held between Greece
and Turkey over the last several months, and the meeting that the Foreign
Ministers of Greece and Turkey are having tomorrow, will hopefully lead to
some progress in this dispute.
If that progress materializes and the dispute is settled, we are most hopeful
that Greece will return to its permanent previous relationship within the
Alliance.
CONFERENCE ON SECURITY AND COOPERATION IN EUROPE
[8.] Q. Mr. President, the NATO communique refers to the need for deeds
in terms of the accomplishments projected for the European Security Confer-
ence, and you also have referred to that, sir. Also, we have the problem of the
SALT negotiation to be concluded. Do you see, sir, any risk that the timetable
may be upset, which could affect the convening of a summit conference in
Washington with Secretary General Brezhnev?
THE PRESIDENT. The CSCE negotiations are reaching a point where there is
some reason for optimism. There are some points that must be resolved, but
progress is being made.
I am not in a position to forecast when the final agreement will be achieved.
if it is, but there is a possibility that the time schedule of several months ago
might materialize, and if it does, then I think the follow-on SALT II meeting
in Washington can also be on schedule.
But in both cases, there is no final agreement, so I hesitate to be precise as to a
date in either case.
BRUSSELS MEETINGS
[9.] Q. Mr. President, in your head-to-head talks with some of the leaders
from the other nations, did you carry the ball in the discussions or did you rely
on Secretary Kissinger to do most of your talking? [Laughter]
747
