May 14
[254]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
For a sound judgment to be made on this problem by all concerned, there
must be presented a plan on how the City would balance its budget. This, given
the amount involved to accomplish that balance, would require an evaluation
of what the City can do through curtailment of less essential services and sub-
sidies and what activities the City can transfer under existing state laws to New
York State.
Fiscal responsibility is essential for cities, states and the Federal Government.
I know how hard it is to reduce or postpone worthy and desirable public pro-
grams. Every family which makes up a budget has to make painful choices.
As we make these choices at home, so must we also make them in public office
too. We must stop promising more and more services without knowing how
we will cover their costs.
I have no doubt that the adoption of sound budget policies would have a
substantial and beneficial effect in both short and long term credit of the City
of New York.
More specifically, in regard to your request to me for support of Congressional
legislation to provide Federal backing and guarantee of City debt, I believe that
the proper place for any request for backing and guarantee is to the State of New
York. For such "bridge loan legislation”, it seems to be both logical and desirable
for the State of New York to arrange under its laws a "bridge loan" to the City
in the amount that you estimate will be needed during the City's fiscal year.
In view of the foregoing considerations, I must deny your request for support
of your Federal Legislative proposal.
I have asked Secretary Simon to follow closely the credit situation of the City
of New York over the next few weeks, and to keep me informed.
The Federal Reserve Board, under its statutory responsibilities, will, I am sure,
likewise monitor the situation very closely.
Sincerely,
NOTE: The President had met at the White House
with Governor Hugh L. Carey and Mayor Beame
GERALD R. FORD
on May 13 to discuss New York City's financial
situation.
665
