[196]
April 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
mate discount pricing. To the maximum extent of law, a manufacturer should
be allowed to pass on to retailers the cost benefits of producing and shipping large
orders for volume buyers. Like fair trade laws, restrictions on discounts act to
keep consumer prices higher than necessary.
These are only a few of the many [areas] where the Administration has
focused on potential action to promote more competition in the marketplace,
which benefit business and the consumer. Other actions will be taken and more
legislation proposed.
I urge—and very strongly recommend—reform of State and local regulations
in these or other areas. The need to clear the cobwebs from our government
regulations applies to all forms of government controls.
Reforms of our present regulatory structure depend upon a revision of our
attitudes. New perceptions are already here. Many of them, as I see it, are
triggered by consumer advocates. Some arise from our current economic prob-
lems. In unraveling nearly a century-it is hard to believe, but nearly a century—
of regulations, we, of course, must be positive, we must be certain that the public
interest prevails. I must say, however, that nothing resists change more stubbornly
than a comfortably entrenched bureaucracy intent upon its own self-preservation.
But the history of this Nation—indeed, its founding, which we are about to
celebrate-is a continuing chronicle of change. America, we know from reading
almost 200 years of history, has a very unique capability to reform itself. Ac-
tually, this is our great strength. The need to reform the relationship between
government and business is not as dramatic as some of the reforms we have
made in the past. But it is vital to our economic recovery and long-range eco-
nomic stability.
Change is the lifeblood of democracy, and the willingness of America to
confront change insures the continuity of our great institutions. I am confident
that America will respond to the challenge for growth.
I thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:37 p.m. in the
State Room at the New Hampshire Highway Hotel.
In his opening remarks, he referred to John Clements,
president of the Business and Industry Association
of New Hampshire.
524
