[73]
February 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
73
Statement on Suspension of United States Military Assistance
to Turkey. February 5, 1975
LEGISLATION enacted by Congress requires that arms deliveries to Turkey
must be suspended February 5. The Administration will comply fully with the
law. However, it should be made clear that military aid to Turkey is not given
in the context of the Cyprus issue, nor has it been granted as a favor to Turkey.
Rather, it is based on our common conclusions that the security of Turkey is
vital to the security of the Eastern Mediterranean and to the security of the
United States and its allies.
A suspension of military aid to Turkey is likely to impede the negotiation of
a just Cyprus settlement. Furthermore, it could have far-reaching and damaging
effects on the security and hence the political stability of all the countries in the
region. It will affect adversely not only Western security but the strategic situa-
tion in the Middle East. It cannot be in the interest of the United States to take
action that will jeopardize the system on which our relations in the Eastern
Mediterranean have been based for 28 years.
When it is seen that the United States is taking action which is clearly incom-
patible with its own interests, this will raise grave doubts about the conduct of
American foreign relations even among countries that are not directly involved
in that area.
The Administration judges these adverse effects of a suspension of aid to
Turkey to be so serious that it urges the Congress to reconsider its action and
authorize the resumption of our assistance relationship with Turkey.
NOTE: The suspension of military assistance to
Turkey was required by the continuing appropria-
tions resolution of October 17, 1974 (Public Law
93-448, 88 Stat. 1363).
74
Toasts of the President and Prime Minister Zulfikar Ali Bhutto
of Pakistan. February 5, 1975
Mr. Prime Minister and Begum Bhutto, and our distinguished guests from
Pakistan as well as from the United States:
We
We are deeply grateful that all of you are here, and we are especially thankful
that the distinguished guests have come to our great country.
196
