[273]
May 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
to increase their trade with us, both by preferential treatment for their
exports and by general lessening of barriers to world trade.
Much remains to be done. We must:
-work with other high income countries to help meet the continuing needs
of the poorest countries in the present world economic situation.
-continue our efforts to meet the long-run problems of food scarcities through
a coordinated program of increased food production in the poor countries,
improved nutrition, increased food stocks and food aid, and research and
development to boost food output everywhere.
-continue to provide opportunities for the developing countries to expand
their trade with the United States and other industrialized nations.
-build on the results of the World Population Conference, fostering the
maximum international cooperation in dealing with world population
problems.
—find new techniques for working with those rapidly advancing countries
that no longer require our concessional assistance, but are anxious to benefit
from American skills and resources in their development programs.
The Development Coordination Committee was created to assist in ensuring
that our policies and actions with respect to the developing countries are co-
ordinated to reflect our interest in their welfare and improved quality of life,
and to advise me on how our actions are affecting these poor countries and our
own economy.
In recent years, there has been disillusionment with our ability to help others
in this world. Our efforts have slackened. We have looked too much at our
failures and not enough at our successes. While our economic problems at home
are serious, we remain one of the most productive countries in the world. We
have much to contribute and we have much to gain from economic cooperation
with developing countries and from their economic progress. Our own pros-
perity will be enhanced if we remain true to our long tradition of assisting
those in need.
If we help them to help themselves, we can work towards a stronger and
more just international economy for the future, lessen human suffering, and
increase our own security in a rapidly changing world.
The White House,
May 22, 1975.
NOTE: The report is entitled "Development Issues,
First Annual Report of the President on U.S. Actions
GERALD R. FORD
Affecting the Development of Low-Income Coun-
tries."
702
