March 7
[126]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
I personally have many reservations about the suggestion that has been made
by the OPEC organization. I think the best way for us to answer that problem
is to be organized and to negotiate rather than to speculate in advance.
BUDGET DEFICIT
[14.] Q. Mr. President, things have been sort of piling up since you an-
nounced your $52 billion prospective deficit. You have now postponed your tax
proposal for March and April. You have put out $2 billion for highways, another
$2 billion for relief jobs, and now the Congress has refused to put a ceiling on
food stamps. My question is this: Just how high do you think this $52 billion
deficit is going to go, and where do you think it is at this point?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the $52 billion deficit was too high, in my judgment.
We did our best to keep it down, and the Congress so far has added substan-
tially to it by not approving the recommended rescissions and deferrals that I
proposed.
I think I recommended in one group about a $950 million rescission, or
deferral, and Congress only approved about $110 or $120 million of that. They
have, in addition, as you indicated, added about $650 million in additional food
stamp costs. I am disturbed.
And I will continue to work trying to convince the Congress that a deficit of
$52 billion is too much, and anything above that is very, very bad. If they think
the way to stimulate the economy is to blow the Federal budget, I think they
are wrong. I think the better procedure, if we need any additional stimulant,
is through a tax cut.
MR. CORMIER. Thank you, Mr. President.
The President. Thank you very much. Have a good night.
NOTE: President Ford's tenth news conference began Office Building. It was broadcast live on radio and
at 7:31 p.m. in Room 450 at the Old Executive television.
126
Statement on Receiving the Final Report of the Advisory
Council on Social Security. March 7, 1975
I HAVE received today the final report of the Advisory Council on Social Secu-
rity. I concur strongly in the Council's unanimous endorsement of the basic
principles of the social security system.
In my view, the most important recommendation of the Council calls for the
stabilization of the benefit structure so that future benefits will maintain a con-
331
