[189]
April 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
Q. Mr. President, going back again to Isaacs' question, does it ever occur
to you late in the morning that maybe it is the press that is confused and
inconsistent? [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Well, Scotty [Reston], I think you know me well enough
to know that under no circumstances would I make that allegation.
OFFSHORE OIL DRILLING
[11.] Q. Mr. President, I have a question relating to offshore oil drilling.
We had quite a presentation this morning on energy. And as part of your goal
of energy independence for the United States by 1985, the Interior Department
is planning to open the Outer Continental Shelf off southern California to oil
exploration at the end of this year and beginning of next year and to full drilling
in 1979.
There are about 9 to 16 billion barrels of oil out there. Nevertheless, Senators
Cranston and Tunney and local officials are saying we don't want you to go
this fast, because you have not allowed the Congress and the people in these
areas enough input into these plans. In fact, the city of Los Angeles is going
to sue, I think, if you don't delay the Interior Department's hearings in May, to
block those hearings.
My question is, is it still your Administration's belief that those oil reserves
off southern California must be tapped according to the present Interior Depart-
ment timetable and that delay would be harmful to the best interests of the
United States as a whole?
THE PRESIDENT. This Administration believes that we must develop the outer
continental oil fields on all of our coasts-in Alaska, on the eastern seaboard,
in the Gulf, and off our west coast. Those potential oil fields are exceedingly
important, all of them, to our better invulnerability to a foreign oil cartel
decision.
The facts are that in 1974 our domestic production of oil was roughly 10
million barrels per day and our foreign oil imports were roughly 6 million
barrels per day. In the short span of less than 6 months, our domestic production
has gone down to about 9 million barrels per day, and our dependency on for-
eign oil imports has gone up to about 7 million barrels per day.
The situation is going to get worse, not better, unless we find a way to
develop all domestic sources of energy, including the Outer Continental Shelf.
I get very concerned when I see the dangerous trend of our growing depend-
ence and worsening dependence on overseas shipments of oil, when at the same
time I see some actions that you have indicated that might be taken to preclude
502
