March 17
[138]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
But I was well received there, and I had a fine opportunity to present a new
concept that we have for higher education. This is another opportunity on
the Notre Dame campus to continue that dialog that I hope will not only
expand but grow by leaps and bounds between the academic community and
the Federal Government.
There is no reason why we should not work together. There are a great
many reasons why we should use the talent, the ability, the personnel that
does exist on the campuses all over the United States, and I certainly intend to
do so in the months ahead.
Q. The second part of the question: How much of a job is there ahead of you
to restore better relations?
THE PRESIDENT. Based on the very warm welcome I received at Notre Dame
today, I think we are on a good footing, and I certainly will bend over backwards
to continue it and to expand it.
I think the dialog is excellent. About a week or 10 days ago I met with 10 or 15
top college and university presidents. That was another step in this better
rapport between the academic community and this Administration. I can assure
you we intend to do everything possible to make sure that it works.
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
[15.] Q. Mr. President, will you be giving Congress all the material that is
asked for as part of its investigation of intelligence activities?
THE PRESIDENT. The Senate committee has asked for a considerable amount
of material. That request is currently being analyzed by the top members of my
staff. I will make a judgment on that as soon as we have had an opportunity to
review all of the very substantial number of requests.
I can assure you and others that we will do all we can to indicate maximum
cooperation, but until we have had an opportunity to review this request in
detail, I am not in a position to give you a categorical answer.
Q. Am I to understand that this executive branch investigation that you raised
the possibility of, outside the Rockefeller Commission, would possibly make it
necessary or advisable for you to delay giving Congress the material it has asked
for?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think there is any necessary conflict between the
Rockefeller Commission and the one or more Congressional committees. The
Rockefeller Commission has been in operation now for a month or two, so they
are underway.
They had planned to finish their work within the next months, as I recollect.
369
