January 28
[51]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
in today's complex society, we will prevent more crime and more corruption
than all the policemen and prosecutors of the government can ever deter."
I went on to say, “If I might say so, this is a job that must begin at home, not
in Washington."
Through your broadcasts, you reach into the homes of America and bring to
young and to old the ageless axioms of divine truth. All of us need the sure
guidance of God in whatever we do. Although there are many faiths and de-
nominations represented at this meeting, a common goal brings us here: recogni-
tion of the need to keep strong the spiritual and moral ties that bind us together
as a great nation. I will not join the skeptics who say Americans have lost faith,
hope, and love. But I know that each new generation must rediscover these
redeeming qualities and translate them into its own way of daily living or life-
style, as they now say. You, individually and collectively, are helping in this
renewal and nurture of our deep religious roots.
When I was young, I learned a couple of verses from the Book of Proverbs,
third chapter, which have stuck with me all my life. When I took the oath of
office as President, the Bible was opened at this passage: "Trust in the Lord with
all thine heart; and lean not unto thine own understanding. In all thy ways
acknowledge Him, and He shall direct thy paths."
That is what I have tried to do and will try to do as your President. I think
it does no violence to the separation of church and state to commend these words
to my countrymen. If it does, I am in pretty good company, starting with George
Washington.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:25 a.m. in the
International Ballroom at the Washington Hilton
Hotel. In his opening remarks, he referred to Dr.
Eugene R. Bertermann, president of the National
Religious Broadcasters.
51
Statement on the Death of Representative John C. Kluczynski
of Illinois. January 28, 1975
I WAS grieved to learn today of the death of a veteran and respected Member
of the House of Representatives. It was my privilege to work with John
Kluczynski as a colleague for 23 years. I know how much he loved his work and
how well he did his job.
117
