June 1
[295]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
profitable way with President Arias Navarro. Each were very rewarding
experiences.
They are eloquent testimony to the depth of friendship between our two
countries.
I lift my glass to Spain and to the United States, to our growing friendship in
the years ahead, to Generalissimo Franco, to His Royal Highness Prince Juan
Carlos, and to the Spanish people.
NOTE: The President spoke at approximately 10
p.m. at the Royal Palace in response to a toast by
Generalissimo Franco.
Generalissimo Franco spoke in Spanish. His re-
marks were translated by an interpreter as follows:
Mr. President:
It has been for me both an honor and great affec-
tion to welcome here President Ford, whose human
qualities and whose virtues as a statesman are well
known to us all, also, his long political record in
his service to his country and in the defense of
world peace.
It also constitutes a special pleasure to my wife
and to myself the presence among us of Mrs. Ford,
whose personal charm and grace has conquered
us all.
Finally, it is also noted with greatest affection to
have here the distinguished guests that accompany
you.
During nearly a quarter of a century, relations
between Spain and the United States have followed
a line of consolidation in our friendship, of par-
ticipation in a series of common aims and objectives,
of the nation of values that we as members of a
free world share together.
With your visit now, you have intended to renew
the attention of the Government and the American
people showed us on the occasion of former visits.
by your former predecessors, Presidents Eisenhower
and Nixon.
I would like to extend to you, Mr. President, my
gratitude and that of the Spanish people for proving
to you in your visit to Madrid that Spain constitutes
one of the fundamental stops in your visit to Europe,
a visit which you are making as head of a country
which leads the group of nations that forms the
Western world.
Before the foreign threats that are looming over
our civilization, on which we have to act now-sub-
version and terrorism, seeking without any doubt to
destroy our way of life-the Western world is in
need more than ever before for cohesion for the
defense of values that are common to us all.
It can be said, Mr. President, that you will find in
Spain a sincere friend ready to cooperate with gen-
erosity and reciprocity to defend those values, as well
as to keep peace and justice among all nations.
Allow me, Mr. President, to raise my glass to the
continued friendship of our two countries, to the
personal welfare of yourself and Mrs. Ford, and to
the peace and happiness of the country in whose
name you are here today-the United States of
America.
295
Statement on Departure From Madrid.
June 1, 1975
AS WE depart Spain, Mrs. Ford and I wish to express our sincere gratitude to
General and Mrs. Franco, to Prince Juan Carlos and Princess Sofia, to President
and Mrs. Arias, and to the Spanish Government and to the Spanish people for
the wonderful reception accorded to us.
The warmth with which we have been received, the cordial, frank, and pro-
ductive discussions I have had with your highest officials, the friendship which
753
