[39]
January 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
In the State of the Union, I urged the Congress to begin the active considera-
tion of these proposals at once so that the jobless, hard-hit industries and be-
leaguered American consumers and taxpayers can begin benefiting from these
proposals at the very earliest opportunity.
And in this connection, if I might, let me address myself to one of the
aspects of my program that has stirred some controversy. I have said repeatedly
that the main burden of this recession must not fall upon those least able to
afford it—our low-income citizens. But at the same time, we must take care
not to penalize middle-income citizens just because they have been more finan-
cially successful than others.
I am mindful of the criticism from some quarters of my proposal for a pro-
portionate tax rebate for middle-income as well as lower-income citizens. Some
critics contend, of course, that rebates should only go to those with low incomes.
I happen to believe it would be a mistake to seek a solution to the problems
of recession by penalizing middle-income Americans. Nothing would more
effectively put a lid on the ambitions and enterprise and hard work of this
important segment of Americans to continue up the economic ladder—for the
sake of their children, if not themselves.
In the process of developing my remarks for tonight, we did a little research,
and here are some facts that I think are worthy of your consideration:
Half of the families in this country today earn between $10,000 and $25,000
per year; one-third have earnings in excess of $15,000 per year. Although it is a
little known fact, more than half of the personal income taxes in this country
are paid by people with incomes over $20,000 per year.
What I am saying, or trying to say, is this-and I want to say it so there
will be no misunderstanding: We need fair tax relief, the tax relief that will
help not only the poor but also the middle class—the skilled workers, farmers,
teachers, reporters, editors, secretaries, salespeople, truckdrivers, policemen, fire-
men, and other hard-working, middle-income Americans who have seen their
earnings and future eroded by inflation and recession.
So, in short, let us not strip incentives from these upward-bound millions
who are struggling to improve their lives and their children's lives by serving
notice that America no longer rewards those who make it from low- to middle-
income status and beyond.
However, I really did not come here this evening simply to repeat my State
of the Union Message, and I won't. In this forum, I will not discuss the past; it
76
