[374]
July 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
374
Remarks at the White House Conference on Domestic and
Economic Affairs in Cincinnati. July 3, 1975
Governor Jim Rhodes, Governor Carroll, Lieutenant Governor Orr, Bill Liggett,
Senator Bob Taft, Congressmen Bill Gradison, Gene Snyder, John Breckinridge,
distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
I am deeply grateful, Jim, for those overly kind and most generous words,
and I hope and trust that we can justify your faith in the months ahead.
Obviously, I am most grateful and deeply appreciative of the opportunity to
meet here with you today as a part of the Ohio River Valley White House
Conference. As you have already heard from other speakers, there are answers
to many of our problems—but no easy answers.
The closest we have ever come to an easy answer was the day Secretary Simon
took Vice President Rockefeller through the Treasury. As they came to the end
of the tour, Bill Simon said, "The Treasury is one of the most important aspects
of our economic policy." Vice President Rockefeller said, "I'll buy that." Bill
Simon said, "Sold!" [Laughter]
I know that you have already had a very full day and heard from many a
number of my top advisers and key Administration officials on a very wide
range of topics. So, instead of another lengthy speech covering a lot of the same
territory, let me take a few minutes to talk about something I feel very strongly
about-America's domestic well-being.
As each of you are well aware, this past year has been a difficult and a per-
plexing one. We have been through a series of crises. But we have survived as a
nation and we have become strengthened as a people.
For 3 straight months now, the index of leading economic indicators have
been heading steadily upward. Gains have been impressive in retail sales,
personal income, housing starts, and in the number of additional Americans at
work-all reflecting the inherent confidence of the people in this country and
their confidence in a free enterprise system.
Once again, our people, our political system, our economy has demonstrated
the strength that made us the most bountiful country in the world. Once again,
the pessimists have been proven wrong about America.
But we must not allow the good news to obscure some of the pitfalls still
ahead. Although indicators say we have brought the recession to a halt, that is
not good enough. There are other problems that require prompt attention.
914
