[104]
February 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
service with the Red Cross to help provide the support so necessary to preserve
this vital voluntary effort.
GERALD R. FORD
105
Remarks at the National Bicentennial Conference.
February 25, 1975
Thank you very much, John. Distinguished Members of the Congress, members
of the "Continental Army":
It is a great privilege and pleasure to join you this morning and to launch
this extremely important conference of representatives from the Federal Gov-
ernment, the State Bicentennial Commissions, and the staff of the American
Revolution Bicentennial Administration.
All of you have contributed, most significantly, thousands and thousands of
hours of work preparing for events during the next 21 months. Your dedication
will make this Bicentennial into a profound renewal for our great country, the
United States of America. Your sense of having participated will be your best
reward.
This group comes from many occupations and many different parts of our
Nation, and I was privileged, yesterday, to meet so many of you personally.
You reflect what I find most exciting about the Bicentennial activities: They
flow from the spirit of all of our people. They are truly national in scope and
truly nonpartisan. The Bicentennial involves all sections of our country and yet
represents a unity of purpose. As all of you know, perhaps better than I, over
6,000 projects are now planned, with more being added every day and every
month. They represent the diversity of our national heritage and the imagina-
tion of our citizens.
There are beautification programs, restoration projects, educational efforts,
medical research-all under the Bicentennial banner.
In New York City, the South Street Seaport, with a museum and rejuvenated
sailing ships, will commemorate the Bicentennial.
Third graders in Riceville, Iowa, sold cookies and Christmas trees to finance
a Bicentennial mini-park.
And in the Texas towns of Howardswick, Clarendon, and Hedley, a com-
munity Bicentennial amphitheater is being built of bricks handmade by the
schoolchildren of those three towns.
274
