April 28
[220]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
It is important to recognize that these obsolete and unnecessary regulations
are not the result of perversity on the part of some regulatory body or govern-
ment official. Rather, they result from the fact that the regulatory process is
inherently static. Regulations do not automatically expire when they have out-
lived their usefulness. There is no systematic pattern of review, and even when
it is acknowledged that changes are warranted, procedural delays often result
in obsolete rules remaining in force for years. In short, while the intention of
regulation is to protect consumers, it sometimes does just the opposite.
In many cases, the reduction or elimination of existing regulations would
result in lower prices for the consumer and open new opportunities for business.
In other industries, where there is inadequate competition, regulation should
continue. But it is the job of government to ensure that such necessary regula-
tion is administered efficiently and fairly.
A second type of regulation is concerned with social issues such as occupa-
tional safety, consumer product safety, and of course, the environment. This
kind of regulation is generally of more recent origin, but it is becoming more
critical every day.
The central issue here is the need for a proper assessment or evaluation of
costs and benefits. The question is not whether we want to do something about
noise or safety, but whether, in making changes in our regulations, would they
make more sense in terms of costs added and benefits gained.
When I talk about costs, I am not just talking about cold figures in a book-
keeping ledger. I am talking about what you pay in the marketplace—in the
supermarket, in the clothing store, in the ladies boutique. Ultimately, all such
costs are paid by you, the producers, and your wives, the consumers.
All too often, the Federal Government promulgates new rules and regula-
tions which raise costs and consumer prices at the same time, to achieve small
or somewhat limited social benefits. In these cases we must either revise pro-
posed rules and regulations to lower their costs, or we must not adopt them in
the first place. Moreover, we must examine the whole range of existing rules
and regulations to determine whether modifications could lower costs without
significantly sacrificing their objectives.
Let me emphasize, however, that we do not seek to eliminate all regulations.
Many are costly, but they are essential to preserve public health, public safety.
But we must know their cost and measure those costs against the good that
the regulations seek to accomplish.
A major problem is that these costs are often hidden from the public, gen-
erally. While we are all accustomed to an open debate on the government's
601
