January 9
[25]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
25
Remarks at the Annual Awards Dinner of the American
Football Coaches Association. January 9, 1975
Thank you very much, Bob. Gerry Zornow, members of the football coaching
profession, my former compatriots:
It is a great privilege and a very high honor to be here tonight and especially
to receive this award that means so much to you, and let me assure you it means
so much to me.
I think all of us who knew Tuss McLaughry knew that he was an American
who never rationed his time, his energy, or his determination to help others to
achieve athletic and personal success. Let me assure you that this award is
treasured even more because it bears Tuss's name. I am most grateful.
Fortunately, I had the privilege and honor of knowing Tuss when he was
coach at Brown, and I was on Ducky Pond's football staff at New Haven. I
used to scout Brown and then watch those pictures after Tuss gave us a hard
time.
He made those football teams at Brown and later on at other schools, such
as Dartmouth, by his leadership and his dedication. And I know from several
personal acquaintances that I had subsequently that Tuss McLaughry developed
young athletes into great public figures.
Let me say,
if I might, that I am extremely humble to be here tonight, because
I had the privilege back beginning in the fall of 1935 right out of Ann Arbor
to go to New Haven and be exposed to outstanding individuals, outstanding
coaches. Our head coach was Ducky Pond; the backfield coach was Greasy
Neale; Ivy Williamson was the end coach. We competed against teams that
were coached by Tuss McLaughry, Dick Harlow, and Fritz Crisler.'
It was a tough league. All of them were men of outstanding qualifications,
not only in the coaching profession but in leadership among men.
I am also not only humble but jealous of those who signed that football who
made All-America.² This was something that I never accomplished, never
achieved, but I respect excellence, whether it is on the gridiron or otherwise. And
I am deeply grateful to those young men, both offensive and defensive, who have
been so thoughtful.
I could not help but notice, Bob, the modern ball makes it a little easier to center
Richard C. Harlow of Harvard University and Herbert Fritz Orin Crisler of Princeton University.
2 Prior to his remarks, the President was presented with a football autographed by members of the 1974
All-America football team.
27
