[69]
February 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
agree that our first order of national business must be an immediate tax relief
to help American consumers wage their own personal battles against recession.
And I think that most of us also agree that the 50 million hard-hit, middle-
income Americans, as well as some 5 million low-income Americans, deserve
a fair tax break.
Quite frankly, I am referring to farmers, teachers, reporters, editors, sec-
retaries, salespeople, truckdrivers, policemen, firemen, and other hard-working,
middle-income Americans who have carried the bulk of this country's tax
burden.
I think it is encouraging to see that labor, business, and the general public
respond so well to the problems of this recession and are joining in the effort
to solve them.
Quite frankly, I have been very impressed by the many excellent examples
of voluntary actions taken to fight the problems of the recession. In a number
of cases, workers in financially pressed plants, financially pressed businesses
have agreed to share shorter working hours to prevent layoffs. This has hap-
pened, for example, in the garment industry in Los Angeles and in the news-
paper business in Washington, D.C., and there are other examples around the
country.
I commend these enlightened efforts, for they are in the best American tradi-
tion. To me, it is very reassuring that our people are still willing to pull together
and share hardships in difficult times.
Let me cite another example. As further evidence of the broad-gauged na-
tional unity on this problem, many leaders of major national labor organiza-
tions, including labor members of the President's united Labor-Management
Advisory Board, have strongly supported the need for an improved invest-
ment tax credit for American business as well as tax relief for the American
worker.
It is this broad approach that I think will restore confidence and bring about
success in meeting the challenge of our current recession. Now, just as personal
income tax rebates totaling some $12 billion will put more money back into
the economy, so the $4 billion tax benefit that I have proposed for business
and agriculture will provide more capital to create more jobs and greater
productivity.
There have been many recessions in our Nation's history. In fact, in my 26
years in Washington, the Nation has undergone at least five recessions, and we
have survived each one of them. We will come through this one as well.
But the energy crisis is something new and something very, very different.
168
