January 23
[45]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
making process on what I think we should do militarily or diplomatically, and
they do a fine job on behalf of the Department of Defense.
Now, I don't think they ought to get into any domestic surveillance, and
mistakes apparently were made going back as early as 1964 or 1955. It has stopped
now. And I have given instructions that under no circumstances shall it be started
again, and I think the CIA has probably learned.
But I don't think we should destroy the CIA in trying to straighten out the
indiscretions or the mistakes that were made.
JUSTICE IN AMERICA
[6.] MR. CHANCELLOR. Mr. President, on an unrelated subject—I have always
wanted to ask you this question about the credibility of American justice as, let
us say, young Americans see it.
We have just gone through the worst scandals in the history of the Presidency.
Mr. Agnew, we are told, is going to become a millionaire—at least his business
partner says that. Mr. Nixon is in California. Some of these other people who
were involved are getting huge book advances. How do you suppose that squares
with the idea of justice as young people ought to see it in this country?
THE PRESIDENT. That is a hard question to answer, John. I am sure it disturbs
a lot of Americans-young as well as old-Americans who have worked hard
all their lives, have made middle-income wages or salaries, lived an honest, decent
life, raised a family, and find that for various economic reasons they are in
trouble, and they see these stories about some of these people who have pled
guilty or been convicted and gone to jail and-
MR. CHANCELLOR. And some of the big ones not touched at all.
THE PRESIDENT. That is correct. And yet, they come out with guarantees or
prepayments of substantial amounts. I think it will bother a good many Amer-
icans, young as well as old. And I don't have any answer. I wouldn't buy the
books, let me add.
MR. CHANCELLOR. That is the first non-Presidential plug for a book, I think,
that I have ever heard.
VIEWS ON THE PRESIDENCY
[7.] MR. BROKAW. I have a question, Mr. President, that—it just isn't easy to
phrase, so I will just have to bear straight ahead with it. As you know, I am
certain, because I have been told that you have commented on this before, but
it has been speculated on in print not only in Washington but elsewhere, and
105
