[313]
June 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
Exploration of the planets continued with successful missions to Jupiter,
Venus, and Mercury. The science of astronomy advanced with important new
observations and discoveries using ground-based, high-altitude, and space
telescopes.
In aeronautics, good progress was made in developing technology to reduce
energy requirements, noise, and pollution of civil aircraft. Modernization of
the air traffic control system continued with the introduction of semiauto-
mated equipment for air route traffic control.
Milestones in military aircraft development included the roll-out of the B-1
bomber, delivery of the first operational F-15 fighter aircraft, deployment
to the fleet of the A-6E all-weather attack aircraft, and the successful testing
of the new CH-53E helicopter.
Transfer of aeronautical and space technology to other fields continued with
many beneficial applications in energy, materials, transportation, medical
care, and other areas.
I believe that all Americans, and people of all nations, can be gratified with
the accomplishments and the continued progress toward achieving the objec-
tives of the National Aeronautics and Space Act of 1958 that are comprehen-
sively described in this report.
The White House,
June 9, 1975.
GERALD R. FORD
NOTE: The report is entitled "Aeronautics and Space Report of the President, 1974 Activities" (Government
Printing Office, 141 pp.).
314
Remarks on Greeting the Capitol Page School Graduating
Class. June 9, 1975
Thank you very much. Mr. Hoffman, members of the graduating class:
First, let me apologize for having to schedule this get-together today at 12:30.
I was reliably informed that through the years each of us so looked forward
to the opportunity to get together-the graduates and the President—that for
old times sake you wanted this ceremony to begin at 6:10 in the morning.
[Laughter]
But let me, in all sincerity, congratulate you, perhaps even envy you, for the
good fortune in attending, I think, one of the finest schools in this country. I
786
