[45]
January 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
In addition, we found this: that everybody thinks that if you have gas ration-
ing they are going to get their full share, and somebody else, or everybody else,
is going to cut back.
Let me give you this statistic, if I might. There are about 140 million licensed
automobile drivers in this country and there is approximately 270 million gal-
lons of gasoline a day, which means that if you divide the number of drivers
into the availability of gasoline, it means about a gallon and a half per person
per day, or about 9 gallons per week, or 36 gallons per month. And that is a
cutback from the average of 50 gallons at the present time, because we have to
save that much.
Now, how many people can get along on a gallon and a half of gasoline, or
9 gallons a week? That is the way the mathematics works out.
So, when you look at the impracticabilities—the inequities, in my judgment—
gas rationing would not work.
MR. BROKAW. Mr. President, you have obviously done your homework on the
gas rationing question, but I don't think that anyone in Congress is proposing
only gas rationing, but perhaps the combination of gas rationing and other
factors. The question still is, if you are willing to change your program and to
let Congress go into it, where are you willing to let Congress change it?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think you can find some options, for example, in the
most dire necessity of having to put a lid on the actual imports. In other words,
if we take in from foreign sources as we are today about 7 million barrels a day
of foreign oil, if a conservation program like I have proposed does not work,
then I think we might have to move to arbitrary allocations. I think that is a
less desirable answer, but it is a possible answer.
MR. BROKAW. Mr. President, do you blame people for being skeptical about
your plan, given the record of your advisers in the economy and other areas?
It was not very long ago that people around here were wearing WIN buttons
and talking about 5-percent tax surcharges, for instance. So, can you blame the
American public and Congress for being more than a little skeptical that this
one will work out just as you say it will?
THE PRESIDENT. I think there is always room for some difference of opinion,
and I must say that I don't contend that my proposal is 100 percent right,
because the options that I had to look at-there were some honest differences
of opinion.
But you did indicate that the proposal for the economy that I submitted last
October might not have been the right answer. I happen to think in October it
was the right answer. But in the interval, between October and January, there
94
