[253]
May 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
The National Council on Educational Research is providing guidance to the
Institute during the development of this program.
I know that the Congress will join with the Administration in supporting
and strengthening the National Institute of Education and in encouraging the
National Council on Educational Research to continue providing the vigorous
policy direction and advice which will assist the Institute to meet its goals.
GERALD R. FORD
The White House,
May 14, 1975.
NOTE: The report is entitled "National Institute of
Education, Department of Health, Education, and
Welfare, National Council on Educational Research,
First Annual Report-1974" (Government Printing
Office, 51 pp.).
254
Letter to Mayor Abraham D. Beame Responding to New York
City's Financial Assistance Request. May 14, 1975
Dear Abe:
The purpose of this letter is to respond to your and Governor Carey's request
to me for my support for Federal legislation which would enable the City
of New York to use the credit of the United States for a period of 90 days and
in the amount of $1 billion.
As you and Governor Carey explained it to me, this 90-day period would
enable the City to bridge the period needed for the New York State Legislature
to act upon your request for increased taxing authority and subsequently enable
you to submit, and the City Council to adopt, a balanced budget for the fiscal
year beginning on July 1, 1975.
I was deeply impressed with the problems you and the City Council must
face in the next few weeks in meeting the financial problems of the great City
of New York. I was also deeply impressed with the difficult steps confronting
you to eliminate the extraordinary imbalance between current revenues and
current expenses. However, it was also clear that the City's basic critical financial
condition is not new but has been a long time in the making without being
squarely faced. It was also clear that a ninety day Federal guarantee by itself
would provide no real solution but would merely postpone, for that period,
coming to grips with the problem.
664
