[204]
April 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
many people-Democrats as well as Republicans, Congress as well as Presidents.
We have got some big jobs to do in other parts of the world. We have treaty
commitments to keep. We have relations with adversaries or potential adver-
saries that we should be concerned about. It is my judgment, under these cir-
cumstances, we should look ahead and not concentrate on the problems of the
past where a good bit of blame can be shared by many.
MR. CRONKITE. Mr. President, Vice President Rockefeller suggested that he
thinks this would be an issue in the 1976 campaign. Will you make it an issue
in 1976 or will you try to keep it out of the campaign?
THE PRESIDENT. I will not make it a campaign issue in 1976.
MR. SCHIEFFER. Well, will Mr. Rockefeller? I didn't quite understand what
he was driving at in that recent interview when he said, you know, if two or
three thousand Americans die in this evacuation, that raises some issues.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, of course, the record—whatever a man in public office
says—can be, in and of itself, a campaign issue. But I can speak only for myself.
And I do not intend to go out and point the finger or make a speech concern-
ing those who have differed with me who I might privately think contributed
to the problem.
By 1976, I would hope we could look forward with some progress in the field
of foreign policy. I think we have got some potential successes that will be very
much possible as we look ahead.
So, rather than to replay the past with all the division and divisive feelings
between good people in this country, I just hope we can admit we made some
mistakes—not try to assess the blame-but decide how we can solve the problems
that are on our doorstep. And we have a few, but they are solvable if we stick
together, if we have a high degree of American unity.
MR. CRONKITE. Well, there is not much trouble leaving the Vietnam issue as
the Nation has had in leaving Vietnam here tonight, but I would like to ask
just one more. Have you talked to former President Nixon about any aspect
of this Vietnam thing in the last few weeks?
THE PRESIDENT. After my state of the world speech April 10, he called me,
congratulated me on it. We discussed what I had said. It was a rather short, but
a very friendly chat on the telephone.
MR. CRONKITE. Any talk about secret agreements?
THE PRESIDENT. As I recall the conversation, he reiterated what I have said:
that the public record corresponds with the private correspondence in reference
to the commitments, moral or legal or otherwise.
546
