[175]
April 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
effectiveness of Federal programs, I urge that this Reorganization Plan authority
again be extended for a four-year period. Such an extension would facilitate the
orderly development of a systematic plan of organization improvements.
We all recognize the benefits of sound organization of governmental agencies.
All three branches of the Federal Government seek effective management,
reduction of expenditures, increased efficiency, and elimination of overlapping
and duplication of effort. The reorganization statute has been instrumental in
Executive Branch efforts to achieve these goals. Therefore, I urge prompt action
by the Congress to extend this authority and renew the usefulness of this statute
as a tool of good government.
Sincerely,
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters addressed
to the Honorable Carl Albert, Speaker of the House
of Representatives, and the Honorable Nelson A.
176
GERALD R. FORD
Rockefeller, President of the Senate. The text of
the draft legislation was included as part of the
release.
Message to the Congress Transmitting Quarterly Report
of the Council on Wage and Price Stability. April 9, 1975
To the Congress of the United States:
In accordance with section 5 of the Council on Wage and Price Stability Act,
as amended, I am hereby transmitting to the Congress the second quarterly
report of the Council on Wage and Price Stability. This report contains a de-
scription of the Council activities during the past few months in monitoring
both wages and prices in the private sector and various Federal Government
activities which lead to higher costs and prices. Additionally, it contains a dis-
cussion of wages and prices during the last quarter of 1974 and the outlook
for 1975.
We are making good progress in winning the battle against inflation. The
Council on Wage and Price Stability has helped to obtain the voluntary coopera-
tion of labor and management in these efforts. The Council also is playing an
important role in restraining any adverse economic impact of proposed Govern-
ment actions.
The White House,
GERALD R. FORD
April 9, 1975.
NOTE: The 73-page report, covering the period November 1974 through January 1975, is entitled "Quarterly
Report-Council on Wage and Price Stability."
454
