January 21
[36]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
remember rationing during World War II. I have no doubt that this Nation
is capable of sustaining a rationing program during a short emergency. How-
ever, to really curb demand, we would have to embark on a long-range ration-
ing program of more than 5 years. Those favoring rationing must be thinking
of a short-term program, not a serious, long-term effort to end energy
dependency.
Further, there is no simple way to reach our goals by rationing. Rationing
provides no stimulus to increase domestic petroleum supply or accelerate alterna-
tive energy sources. By concentrating exclusively on gasoline rationing, many
other areas for energy conservation are overlooked.
In addition to being ineffective, gas rationing is inequitable. Even a ration-
ing system that is designed with the best motives in mind and implemented by
the most conscientious administrators would not be fair. If you were to go
around the country and ask individuals what they should get under a “fair”
rationing system, you would find that there would be simply not enough
gasoline to go around. In fact, to reach our 1975 goal of reducing foreign oil
imports by 1 million barrels per day, a gas rationing system would limit each
driver to less than 9 gallons a week.
Inequities would be everywhere: How would people in remote areas of
the country get enough gas to drive into town? How would farmers get enough
gas to harvest their crops? What would happen to people who must drive a
long way to work each day? And who would make those decisions?
It is essential that we recognize the size of the problem which we are attempt-
ing to solve. As a consequence, we must evaluate each energy program to see
whether, in fact, it actually confronts and solves the problem. It does us little
good to impose rationing or a gasoline tax or simply shut down gasoline stations
on Sunday. These will not give us energy independence.
The alternative I have chosen relies on freedom of individual choice—giving
people and businesses an incentive to save energy. This is the only way to
achieve our energy goal. The need for action is obvious.
Therefore, later this week, I will sign a Presidential proclamation [4341]
which will set in motion the most important and far-reaching energy conserva-
tion program in our Nation's history. It is the first step toward regaining our
energy freedom. We must reverse our increasing dependency on imported oil.
It seriously threatens our national security and the very existence of our freedom
and leadership in the free world.
The proclamation is designed to impose higher fees on imported oil which
61
