June 25
[354]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think that I should comment on a matter of that kind.
I can say very emphatically that we have an expert intelligence-gathering com-
munity in our Federal Government and we have a first-class counterintelligence
organization in the United States Government. I have full faith in their responsi-
bilities in any field such as that that you mention.
Yes, Mr. Knap [Ted Knap, Scripps-Howard Newspapers].
INFLATION AND UNEMPLOYMENT
[17.] Q. You said, in answer to an earlier question, that the unemployment
rate projected by your chief economic advisers is unacceptable. That projection
is that unemployment would remain at about 8 percent through most of next
year, and you said you would consider asking for an extension of the tax cut.
Is it your present thinking that you probably would recommend extending the
tax cut if unemployment is that high, that is, about 8 percent at the start of
next year?
THE PRESIDENT. I think you have to take into consideration not only the un-
employment rate but also the impact an increase in the budget deficit of some
$20 billion, on inflation.
We have two very serious problems. One, we are licking inflation, and one,
we are working on unemployment. And as we move ahead, we have to be
most careful that we don't reignite the fires of inflation, because every economist
with whom I have talked tells me that if in our efforts to do something quickly
in the field of unemployment, we could end up with a new round of inflation,
and if you have a new round of inflation of the magnitude of 10, 14, 15, 20 per-
cent, you will have another recession, and unemployment at that time will go
to about 14 to 15 percent.
So, what we have to do is very carefully, very judiciously look at both sides
of the coin. And we are. And I believe that we have made great strides in doing
something about inflation. And I am optimistic that we can do something about
more employment and less unemployment.
MR. CORMIER. Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much. Hope you had a good time out here.
NOTE: President Ford's sixteenth news conference began at 5 p.m. on the South Grounds of the White House.
It was broadcast live on radio and television.
877
