January 21
[36]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
All of these little pieces that people talk about are not a part of a comprehensive
plan, the kind of a program that I have submitted to the Congress and to the
American people.
Until someone comes up with a total plan, such as we have come up with, I
think it is unfortunate to have this rather limited criticism.
ECONOMIC AND ENERGY PROGRAMS
[8.] Q. Would your plan come apart if any piece of it were not approved
by the Congress?
THE PRESIDENT. I think it is so comprehensive that one piece not being imple-
mented would not bring about its downfall. But I can assure you that it is so well-
integrated that every piece is essential if we are to achieve the maximum result,
which is no vulnerability against foreign sources of energy after 1985.
THE CONGRESS
[9.] Q. Mr. President, in recent days the Democratic Caucus seems to have
emerged as the power up in the House. How can you, as the President, deal with
the caucus instead of the more traditional power bases such as Speaker, minority
leader, committee chairmen ?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I know and have worked with many of the new forces
that have emerged in the House of Representatives on the Democratic side. I
will, of course, concentrate my working relationship with the Speaker and with
the majority leader and the other elected leaders, but I will also, of course, be
required to work with the committee chairmen, whoever they may be. We will
have to be very pragmatic as we try to get our legislation through, and that means
working with the majority from the top to the most junior Member.
THE MIDDLE EAST
[10.] Q. Mr. President, I would like to follow up on Helen Thomas' ques-
tion. There has been considerable discussion, as you know, about this question
of military intervention in the Middle East, and you and others have said that it
might be considered if the West's economies were strangled. Mr. President, as
you know, the Charter of the United Nations says that all members shall refrain
in their international relations from the threat of the use of force against the
territorial integrity or political independence of any state.
Now, Mr. President, I would like to know whether this section of the Charter
of the United Nations was considered, taken under consideration before these
statements were made by members of the Administration, and if not, why not?
65
