[266]
May 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
But, Mr. President, I am happy to inform you that you are in. David Brinkley
was asked to predict and he predicted your reelection, didn't he? He pulled
out a couple of other boners, too. [Laughter] But that was real endorsement.
And seriously, I think that I would gamble that four-fifths of the people here
tonight are pretty proud of you for what you have just done in the last week. I
want to tell you that. You heard the applause, and that's better than my voice. I'll
give up the phone now.
THE PRESIDENT. Norris, let me just say this: The execution of the order, or
orders—that was easy, because I knew that we had great marines, great airmen,
great seamen, great soldiers who would carry out those orders and do what
was right for America and do it successfully.
We have to support them. They are fine young people, well-led, well-
equipped, and they proved what we have all said—that we are strong, we are
tolerant, we are cautious but firm. This is what America has to be as we move
into the days ahead. We should thank them. That is the important thing.
David, I hope you enjoy it up there. They are great people, and I thank you
for the opportunity of just saying a word or two.
MR. BRINKLEY. Well, thank you, Mr. President. Some of those in the room
look forward to seeing you in March.
THE PRESIDENT. I'll be up there. Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:30 p.m. by tele-
phone from the White House. The dinner, held at
the Sheraton-Wayfarer Hotel in Manchester, New
Hampshire, was sponsored by the Northeast Busi-
267
ness Group and the Small Business Service Bureau.
David Brinkley of NBC News was master of cere-
monies.
Remarks Upon Establishing the President's Advisory
Committee on Refugees. May 19, 1975
Members of the Congress, members of the Advisory Committee, members of
the Federal Establishment, members who are here just to participate:
It is a great privilege and pleasure for me to welcome you to the White
House on this occasion. I definitely am grateful for your coming to Washington
on this occasion on such short notice, but time is of the essence.
If I might, I would like to now sign the Executive order and make a few
comments at a later point.
[At this point, the President signed Executive Order 11860 and then resumed speaking.]
We have a big job to do, and we have asked some outstanding people from all
688
