April 23
[207]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Unfortunately, the double blows of inflation and recession, along with other
drains on Government revenues, are occurring at precisely the time that we
should be putting more funds into more ships. As a consequence, Department
of Defense expenditures in the next fiscal year will represent slightly less than
6 percent of the gross national product, the lowest point since the pre-Korean
demobilization. In real terms, after making all of the adjustments for inflation,
Defense Department spending has been cut almost 40 percent since the height
of the Vietnam war. It is 15 percent below the pre-Vietnam level.
As a percentage of total government spending, including State and local,
defense expenditures come to only 16 percent, the lowest point since before
Pearl Harbor.
As for our human resources, today only 1 percent of America's population
is under arms. Our military manpower is actually nearly 600,000 below the
pre-Vietnam level.
However good their intentions, those who claim that America is overarmed
and overspending on defense are wrong. It is my very deep conviction we can-
not afford to cut any further without endangering our national security. While
our own military spending has been declining, others have not been idle. The
Soviet Union, for example, is outspending us on defense by at least 20 percent.
As far as the Navy is concerned, the budget that I have submitted to the
Congress for the next fiscal year requests $3,100 million to build 23 new ships
and an additional $2,300 million to restore full funding to our shipbuilding
account of previous years.
I deeply believe that the vast majority of our citizens today want to maintain
American sea, land, and air forces that are second to none. Let it never be said
that our generation allowed American seapower to erode into a second class
status. Let it never be said that we permitted our merchant fleet to disappear
by attrition.
Only a strong America, an America strong of will, strong of purpose, can
be an effective force for peace in a troubled, modern world, and a strong navy
and merchant marine are essential to a strong America.
I pledge to you that I will continue to work with all of you, and literally
thousands like you, for the kind of America that has been good, not only for us
but for all mankind. And I will ask for your help in pursuing this vital goal
as we move ahead in the days and the months before us.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:55 p.m. in the Im-
perial Ballroom at the Fairmont Hotel. In his open-
ing remarks, he referred to Ernest A. Carrere, Jr.,
national president, and Rev. Sam Hill Ray, national
chaplain, Navy League of the United States; and
Rabbi Julian B. Feibelman of New Orleans.
567
