April 18
[195]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
character, firmness of principle, and restraint that have long characterized New
Hampshire.
Much of the rhetoric we see in America today tends toward exaggeration,
toward overstatement. Such language, in my opinion, tends to divide more than
unite our people. It excites more than enriches. It promises more, unfortunately,
than we can produce.
This is not the time, as I see it, for extremes or excess in language or in con-
duct. It is not the moment for exaggeration in any direction. It is a time to think,
a time to act with reason and with restraint.
You and I share a common interest in a subject where we must avoid ex-
tremes and avoid excess. That is the general subject of how we manage our
affairs—as reflected in your State budget and in the Federal budget.
Amid the climbing costs of Federal and State budgets, particularly in the last
decade, New Hampshire has truly balanced its budget. You grappled with your
problems without a general income or sales tax. Obviously, I admire your self-
discipline and your self-restraint. You have gone about your business quietly,
with restraint, without the exaggerated rhetoric which divides people and with-
out excessive promises that create, unfortunately, so much false hope.
In Federal programs and Federal spending, the opposite has been true. In
the last quarter century-25 years-Federal payments for individuals climbed
from $31 billion on an annual basis to about $160 billion in constant dollars. In
other words, from less than one-fourth of the Federal budget to nearly one-half.
America is now spending, according to the statisticians—if we include com-
parable figures for State and local units of government—about $250 billion
annually for various payments to individuals. That is approximately 15 percent
of today's national income, compared to some 4 percent 25 years ago.
Most of this spending is centered in relatively few programs. More than one-
third of the funds are spent in social security payments, Medicare, and Medicaid.
Many benefit programs—I want to emphasize—are highly desirable. For ex-
ample, a generation ago, America devised one of the finest social security systems
in the world and followed it with Medicare and Medicaid and, recently, a
supplemental income plan. The American people supported these programs,
and so do I.
Now, we have done many, many things over the past generation for the aged,
for the blind, the disabled-those who tragically cannot help themselves. But
it is also true that there has been an astounding, an astonishing explosion in the
number of other Federal programs and in the number of people administering
them.
513
