[373]
July 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
tection Agency symbolizes the growth and the maturing of our ongoing policy
to protect and to preserve America's precious air, land, and water.
When the decade of the seventies began, we made the achievement of a
cleaner and healthy environment a matter of the highest national priority. We
achieved steady and substantial progress toward that goal. And you have my
strong personal pledge that this country will remain firmly committed to con-
tinuing that progress. And I should add, as long as I have anything to say about
it, this country's symbol will never be an empty beer can in a river of garbage.
With the formation of the Environmental Quality Council and the creation
of the Environmental Protection Agency, this Nation took a major step in
establishing a new environmental agenda. Since 1969, we have seen the passage
of significant legislation to provide the tools to keep America the beautiful.
And when Congress returns from the Fourth of July recess, I will submit
a proposal to establish a comprehensive and uniform system for fixing liability
and settling claims resulting from oil pollution damages in America's waters
and coastlines.
This proposal will implement two international conventions now under con-
sideration by the Congress, dealing with the problem of oil pollution caused by
tankers on the high seas. I consider this initiative to be one of great national
importance.
America's energy needs require the accelerated development of our offshore
oil and gas resources and the increased use of our deepwater ports. This proposal
will allow us to proceed with determination, but in a manner that is environ-
mentally acceptable and sound.
We ask all citizens and groups concerned with the quality of America's en-
vironment to join with us in seeking new ways to preserve it. This is not a
Federal concern alone. It is the responsibility of every level of government and
each individual-all the way from the White House to your house. We all
breathe the same air—or smog. And it's up to us.
I am convinced that an active partnership between the Federal, State, and
local agencies is the proper formula for assuring the future success of our en-
vironmental efforts. This is not idle theorizing. Such cooperation has already
brought about in many, many areas of our country a remarkable improvement
in air and water quality. Great rivers and lakes, once given up as dead, have
shown dramatic new life.
Lake Erie, the butt of many a joke, was virtually written off by some as un-
salvageable. It now shows signs of a healthy recovery. Even more encouraging,
912
