[70]
February 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
expenditures is the only way we can halt an extraordinary increase in the portion
of our incomes which Government will take in the future.
A simple calculation shows the size of the problem which we face. Transfer
payments to individuals by the Federal Government have increased, after
adjustment for inflation, by almost 9 percent annually during the past two
decades. A continuation of this trend for the next two decades, along with only
modest increases in other Federal expenditures and in those of State and local
governments, would lift the expenditures by government at all levels from about
one-third of the gross national product to more than one-half. Spending on this
scale would require a substantial increase in the tax burden on the average
American family. This could easily stifle the incentive and enterprise which is
essential to continued improvements in productivity and in our standard of
living.
The achievement of our independence in energy will be neither quick nor
easy. No matter what programs are adopted, perseverence by the American
people and a willingness to accept inconvenience will be required in order to
reach this important goal. The American economy was built on the basis of low-
cost energy. The design of our industrial plants and production processes reflect
this central element in the American experience. Cheap energy freed the
architects of our office buildings from the need to plan for energy efficiency. It
made private homes cheaper because expensive insulation was not required when
energy was more abundant. Cheap energy also made suburban life accessible to
more citizens, and it has given the mobility of the automobile to rural and city
dwellers alike.
The low cost of energy during most of the twentieth century was made
possible by abundant resources of domestic oil, natural gas, and coal. This
era has now come to an end. We have held the price of natural gas below the
levels required to encourage investment in exploration and development of new
supplies, and below the price which would have encouraged more careful use.
By taking advantage of relatively inexpensive foreign supplies of oil, we im-
proved the quality of life for Americans and saved our own oil for future use. By
neglecting to prepare for the possibility of import disruptions, however, we left
ourselves overly dependent upon unreliable foreign supplies.
Present circumstances and the future security of the American economy leave
no choice but to adjust to a higher relative price of energy products. We have, in
fact, already begun to do so, although I emphasize that there is a long way to go.
Consumers have already become more conscious of energy efficiency in their
purchases. The higher cost of energy has already induced industry to save energy
174
