[363]
June 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
cant results in 1973. Increased public attention was focused on the problems of
workplace hazards. This awareness was reflected in a number of areas-collec-
tive bargaining agreements, union and industry safety and health program
activities, and industry association and journal articles, among others.
Another achievement in 1973 was the development of State occupational
safety and health programs. The Department of Labor approved twenty new
State plans marking important progress toward development of an integrated
Federal-State partnership in occupational safety and health.
During 1973, the National Institute of Occupational Safety and Health
(NIOSH) in the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare-which has
responsibility for occupational safety and health research-significantly in-
creased knowledge of toxic substances and other causes of unhealthy working
environments. It also further developed detailed criteria for use by the Depart-
ment of Labor in establishing standards governing the use of hazardous sub-
stances in the workplace.
This report contains results of the first full-year occupational injury and
illness survey, covering 1972. This survey by the Bureau of Labor Statistics will
become the base for the future measure of progress in reducing deaths, injuries,
and illnesses caused by workplace conditions.
The 1973 report is another step in providing a record of our Government's
efforts in behalf of a safe and healthful work environment for all Americans.
All of us share this goal of improving the welfare of the working men and
women of our country.
The White House,
June 27, 1975.
GERALD R. FORD
NOTE: The report is entitled "The President's Report on Occupational Safety and Health-Annual Report
for 1973" (Government Printing Office, 156 pp.).
364
Statement Urging Extension of Automobile Emission Standards
Deadline. June 27, 1975
EARLIER this year, I submitted to the Congress my proposed Energy Inde-
pendence Act of 1975. In that comprehensive proposal, I recommended that the
Congress modify provisions of the Clean Air Act of 1970 related to automobile
emissions. I proposed strict emission controls that would still permit America to
892
