January 4
[9]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Because of their immense capacity, supertankers can reduce by nearly one-
third the cost of hauling a barrel of oil. The use of deepwater ports also reduces
the danger of oil spills, since fewer conventional tankers would be required to
deliver oil to our crowded inshore harbors. Our existing ports are not deep
enough to handle supertankers safely, and dredging existing ports can be very
expensive as well as environmentally undesirable.
The Deepwater Port Act is a significant addition to our program for supply-
ing the Nation's energy needs. I am pleased to be able to sign it into law as one of
my first acts of the new year.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 10701, approved January 3, 1975, is Public Law 93-627 (88 Stat. 2126).
9
Statement on Signing the Transportation Safety Act of 1974.
January 4, 1975
I AM SIGNING into law H.R. 15223, the Transportation Safety Act of 1974.
This bill will make revisions to laws concerning the transportation of hazardous
materials, authorize funds for rail safety enforcement and research, and make
the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) a completely independent
agency.
This bill will expand the powers of the Department of Transportation to
regulate the safe transportation of hazardous materials. While this expansion
of powers goes against my general goal of reducing Federal regulation where
possible, I recognize the problems that have existed in the past with the han-
dling of hazardous materials. That concern has led me to approve the bill
because of the significant dangers associated with handling these materials
and the possible effects on people living near transportation facilities.
I remain committed, however, to the principle of maintaining the minimum
possible Federal involvement in matters that are best handled by State, local,
or private authorities and the elimination of unnecessary regulation. I am direct-
ing the Secretary of Transportation to implement this bill in such a way as
to ensure the public safety, while at the same time not putting any unnecessary
burden or paperwork on our Nation's industry and trade. I think regulations
on hazardous materials can be enforced in a way to meet both these objectives.
Travel in the United States will be safer because of Federal actions which
will be taken under this new law. However, the Congress and the Executive
9
