May 7
[245]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
in Government were recognized under the Federal government awards pro-
grams and awarded over $22 million for saving $268 million through their con-
structive ideas and other achievements beyond job requirements. To emphasize
the need for cost saving suggestions and improved productivity, a special cost
reduction campaign will be conducted during the remainder of Calendar Year
1975. During the campaign, I ask that you bring to my attention the contribu-
tions of civilian and military personnel which result in first year measurable
benefits of $5,000 or more so that I may extend my congratulations to them by
personal letter.
I urge that existing agency communications media be used to convey the
attached message to members of your organization and that each of you find
special ways to encourage and recognize those whose efforts result in significant
cost savings. By enlisting the full support and creative talents of the Federal
work force, I am confident that we can achieve needed economies within the
Government.
GERALD R. FORD
245
Message to Federal Civilian and Military Personnel on
the Federal Cost Reduction Campaign. May 7, 1975
[Dated May 6, 1975. Released May 7, 1975]
A VICTORIOUS campaign against the problems of recession and inflation
requires individual discipline and ingenuity as well as the total mobilization of
America's greatest resources—the brains, the skills, and the will power of our
people. In this fight, it is vital that all Federal civilian and military personnel
become actively involved in cost reduction and energy conservation efforts.
Each of you can make a personal contribution by submitting constructive
ideas and working cooperatively to eliminate waste, improve equipment, stream-
line operations or make more productive use of time, facilities and energy
resources. I have established a special cost reduction campaign within the frame-
work of the Federal government awards program to encourage cost saving
suggestions.
During the remainder of Calendar Year 1975, I will take special note of
outstanding contributions of civilian and military personnel. I have asked to be
informed of all suggestions, inventions and scientific and other contributions
which result in first year measurable benefits to the Government of $5,000 or
653
