[264]
May 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
I do congratulate today's graduates. But if my congratulations are to have
any real meaning, I must relate the past to the present and our national goals
to your individual goals.
It is a very special privilege to address a university whose growth has always
been oriented toward the future. Your medical school, your school of business,
and other departments of the University of Pennsylvania testify to a timely
response to the needs of the community by equipping individuals to become
problemsolvers.
Your illustrious founder, Benjamin Franklin, conceived of a university as a
center where an individual can find fulfillment through the individual's own
efforts. Franklin did not see schools as the purveyors of all of the answers. He
saw them constantly responding to the needs of the community rather than
conforming scholars to the rigid classic mold.
Franklin's own life was a continuous self-educational process. Practical
wisdom was his aim. We find nowhere in his writings the false concept of
"completion of education." He saw no limitations to what an individual could
learn.
When eight bachelors and four masters received their degrees here 200 years
ago, the Continental Congress was groping its way to a fateful decision as to
the direction this country should take in the future. But there was also much
talk of the past, for the delegates were determined not to repeat its mistakes.
One of the young commencement speakers in 1775 held forth on "The Fall
of the Empires," which he attributed to excesses of luxury, venality, and vice.
He was not far wrong, and he wound up by looking far into the future and
expressing the hope-his hope for America-that amidst the wide waste of
empires, this one corner of the globe may at least remain the last asylum of
truth, righteousness, and freedom.
Freedom was on everybody's lips that day in May 1775, just as it is in May
of 1975.
The news of Lexington and Concord, though nearly a month had passed,
had just reached Philadelphia newspapers. But there was by no means unanimity
for independence; indeed, I suspect if there had been a public opinion poll in
those days, they probably would have showed a great majority of Americans
considered themselves loyal Englishmen and wanted no war.
As we read the records of 1775, we find a spirited debate. It was actually in
progress right here on this campus, as well as in the nearby deliberations of
the Continental Congress, between the proponents of individual liberty and
independence and the defenders of discipline and order.
680
