February 13
[92]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Veterans Affairs, The Director of the ACTION Agency, The Executive
Director, President's Economic Policy Board, The Executive Director,
Energy Resources Council
Subject: Domestic Council
To assist in carrying out my responsibilities for domestic policy formulation
within a broad conceptual framework, I want the Domestic Council to under-
take the following responsibilities in domestic policy areas:
-Assessing national needs and identifying alternative ways of meeting them.
-Providing rapid response to Presidential needs for policy advice.
-Coordinating the establishment of national priorities for the allocation of
available resources.
-Maintaining a continuous policy review of on-going programs.
-Proposing reforms as needed.
I would specifically like to emphasize the following essential components
of these functions:
-Identify major policy problem areas requiring Administration attention
and actions.
-Coordinate the formulation of policy options in the domestic area for my
consideration.
-Initiate fact-finding analysis, develop policy options and recommendations
for Presidential decision, Administration action and legislation.
—Review in conjunction with OMB departmental legislative proposals for
their impact on present policy and legislation and consistency with Ad-
ministration policy.
-Establish guidelines in conjunction with OMB for formulation of Depart-
mental and Agency administrative regulations to ensure consistency with
Administration policy objectives and legislative intent.
Because of the complexity and interrelationship of domestic policies and
programs, I believe the broadest perspectives must be brought to bear in the
Domestic Council's deliberations. For this reason, I have asked the Vice Presi-
dent to serve as Vice Chairman of the Council and to oversee the work of the
Council.
I am also asking the Vice President to review the operations of the Council
staff and to propose such reorganization of the Council as from time to time may
be necessary.
To expedite the work of the Domestic Council, the Vice President will make
257
