[187]
April 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
seats and Governorships all over this great country. And they are vital and
important as we look down the road.
But for 1975, there is a lot of spadework to be done. By your being here
tonight, you have contributed a significant amount. The Republican Party, as
I see it, must reach out as never before to attract new voters, nonvoters, Inde-
pendents, and Democrats deserted by their leadership.
Our task is not merely to strengthen our party and to broaden its appeal, as
we must, but also to reverse a very dangerous trend which finds Congressional
elections won or lost with less-and it is almost unbelievable-won or lost by
less than half of our voting-age citizens actually voting.
The natural question is, what should we do about it? What can we accomplish
as we look at the problem?
As a starter, we can use this time before the next national election to rebuild
the Republican Party into a strong competitor in the two-party system, which
has proven over many, many years in the long haul, if you want to call it, to be
the best political system in the history of mankind.
Let us resolve from this night on, if we may, that our party's primary goal
should be to attract the broadest spectrum of people sharing our basic beliefs.
It is my judgment, I have no apologies for it, I really believe it; for the
strength of America lies not only in its diversity but also in its unity. The ulti-
mate strength of our party lies in its commitment to principle.
Our effort to broaden the base of our party does not mean that we must aban-
don traditional Republican principles-far from it. It means, instead, that we
have to clarify and emphasize those principles so that all persons of like political
interests can join in supporting the candidates of the Republican Party, because
if we don't have candidates and we don't have elected candidates, all of our
efforts really are to no avail.
So, let me give you just, if I might, three principles or thoughts, if I might, on
some fundamental Republican principles.
First, Republicans have a long-demonstrated commitment to the free enter-
prise system and fiscal responsibility by the Federal Government. The record is
replete, and the facts are that you can't have one without the other. For too many
years, the country has been headed in the wrong direction. Constantly increasing
deficits and unchecked spending have been milestones on the road to economic
disaster.
As I see it, despite our present traumatic experiences both at home and abroad,
we must move in a new direction, a Republican direction, toward budgetary
discipline and fiscal restraints.
490
