July 2
[372]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Where do you go from here? Or where you go from here, I should say, is up to
you. So, you have got to think big, be big, act big, dream big, and above all,
accomplish big, for wherever you go, I am sure that the members of this Commis-
sion, your teachers, parents, friends join me in saying that success will entail
traveling a long, endless road, since success is not a destination, but a long, in-
finite journey.
You are just now getting into orbit. It might be the end of 12 years of prepara-
tion, but there will be many, many more to come. Make them meaningful and
useful, not only to yourselves but to all.
I conclude by saying I am very proud of all of you, and I have enjoyed spending
this time with you.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:17 p.m. in the East
Garden at the White House. In his opening re-
marks, he referred to Virginia Y. Trotter, Assistant
Secretary of HEW for Education, Terrell H. Bell,
Commissioner of Education, and W. Allen Wallis,
Chairman of the Commission on Presidential
Scholars.
372
Remarks Upon Signing the Emergency Housing Act of 1975.
July 2, 1975
First, distinguished Members of the Congress, Secretary Hills, distinguished
members of labor and industry and, particularly, the housing industry:
Obviously, I am very, very pleased to sign into law H.R. 5398, the Emergency
Housing Act of 1975. This proposed legislation, which I will sign into law, em-
bodies basically the compromise provisions which we worked out with the
House and the Senate.
I commend the Members of the Congress on both sides of the aisle and at both
ends of the Capitol for quickly enacting this meaningful and, I think, effective
housing legislation. This is an excellent example of the way in which the Con-
gress and the executive branch can and should work together in the best interest
of the American people.
This Administration is committed to a prompt recovery of the housing indus-
try and to getting construction workers back on the job. Both of these objectives
and actions are crucial to our overall economic recovery.
This legislation provides an additional $10 billion of mortgage purchase
authority to the Government National Mortgage Association which will be
909
