April 10
[179]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
prisoners. This settlement, if its terms had been adhered to, would have per-
mitted our South Vietnamese ally, with our material and moral support, to
maintain its security and rebuild after two decades of war.
The chances for an enduring peace after the last American fighting man left
Vietnam in 1973 rested on two publicly stated premises: first, that if necessary,
the United States would help sustain the terms of the Paris accords it signed
2 years ago, and second, that the United States would provide adequate eco-
nomic and military assistance to South Vietnam.
Let us refresh our memories for just a moment. The universal consensus in
the United States at that time, late 1972, was that if we could end our own
involvement and obtain the release of our prisoners, we would provide adequate
material support to South Vietnam. The North Vietnamese, from the moment
they signed the Paris accords, systematically violated the cease-fire and other
provisions of that agreement. Flagrantly disregarding the ban on the infiltra-
tion of troops, the North Vietnamese illegally introduced over 350,000 men into
the South. In direct violation of the agreement, they sent in the most modern
equipment in massive amounts. Meanwhile, they continued to receive large
quantities of supplies and arms from their friends.
In the face of this situation, the United States-torn as it was by the emotions
of a decade of war-was unable to respond. We deprived ourselves by law of the
ability to enforce the agreement, thus giving North Vietnam assurance. that it
could violate that agreement with impunity. Next, we reduced our economic
and arms aid to South Vietnam. Finally, we signaled our increasing reluctance
to give any support to that nation struggling for its survival.
Encouraged by these developments, the North Vietnamese, in recent months,
began sending even their reserve divisions into South Vietnam. Some 20 divi-
sions, virtually their entire army, are now in South Vietnam.
The Government of South Vietnam, uncertain of further American assistance,
hastily ordered a strategic withdrawal to more defensible positions. This
extremely difficult maneuver, decided upon without consultations, was poorly
executed, hampered by floods of refugees, and thus led to panic. The results are
painfully obvious and profoundly moving.
In my first public comment on this tragic development, I called for a new
sense of national unity and purpose. I said I would not engage in recriminations
or attempts to assess the blame. I reiterate that tonight.
In the same spirit, I welcome the statement of the distinguished majority
leader of the United States Senate earlier this week, and I quote: "It is time for
461
