March 6
[124]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
124
Memorandum on Equal Opportunity in Federal Employment.
March 6, 1975
Memorandum for Heads of Departments and Agencies
Chairman Hampton of the Civil Service Commission recently reported to me
on progress to assure equal opportunity in Federal employment. I have also
reviewed the most recent statistics on the employment of minorities and women
in the Federal Government.
Minorities and women have demonstrated their ability to compete success-
fully under merit principles. Over one-fifth of the jobs in Government agencies
are held by Blacks, Spanish-speaking Americans, American Indians and Asian
Americans. Nearly one-third of all Federal employees are women.
While I am encouraged by these figures, our efforts must continue. For exam-
ple, within the general schedule and similar grade groupings, minorities
represent only 5.2% and women only 4.5% of Federal employees at GS 13 and
above. I therefore want you to know how I view equal employment oppor-
tunity. I urge you to provide strong leadership in your own organization.
Our Nation's strength is based upon the concept of equal opportunity for all
our citizens. Decisions motivated by factors not related to the requirements of a
job have no place in the employment system of any employer and particularly
the Federal Government.
But more is required than non-discrimination and prohibition of discrimina-
tory practices. What is needed are strong affirmative actions to assure that all
persons have an opportunity to compete on a fair and equal basis for employment
and advancement in the Federal Government. Affirmative action includes re-
cruitment activities designed to reach all segments of our society, fair selection
procedures, and effective programs of upward mobility so that all employees have
the opportunity to gain skills to enable them to compete for higher level posi-
tions. Such actions are under way in the Federal Government. They must be
continued and expanded.
Although the Federal Government has employed large numbers of minor-
ities and women, vigorous efforts to assure equal employment opportunity must
continue, particularly in those geographical areas and agencies and installations
where more progress is needed. There are program areas where special em-
phasis is needed. There is reason to believe, for example, that the skills of the
Spanish-speaking as a group have not yet been fully tapped. Also, a much wider
319
