[151]
March 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
151
Memorandum on Annual Report on Federal Executive
Boards. March 21, 1975
Memorandum for Heads of Departments and Agencies
During 1974, the 25 Federal Executive Boards across the nation made sig-
nificant strides in improving internal Federal management and responding to
unique community needs. This Annual Report of the FEBs attests to their col-
lective ability to improve coordination and communication among Federal field
offices, at other levels of government, and with the public.
As a result of their demonstrated commitment and enthusiasm, I believe
FEBs can continue to be instrumental in supporting Presidential initiatives and
programs. They can set an example in such areas of critical concern as im-
provement of management of resources in limited or short supply, encourage-
ment of energy efficiency, productivity, and the restoration of confidence in
government.
Please make your senior officials in the field aware of the importance of
their continuing involvement with and support of FEBs. It is a very worthwhile
effort.
GERALD R. FORD
152
Text of Remarks at a Dinner for Participants in a White House
Meeting on the Coal Industry. March 21, 1975
THIS HAS been a good day for all Americans. Anytime we can get leaders of
a vital industry such as coal in the same room with government officials con-
cerned about your industry and your problems, the American people benefit.
To have these discussions here at the White House-the symbolic home of
all our people—is living proof of democracy at work. It also underlines the
importance of this conference. I am delighted you are here.
Coal is one vital key to our Nation's success in meeting its energy needs for
the rest of the century. The United States has enormous reserves of coal, with
estimates ranging into the hundreds of years. Coal is as old as the world and
as new as tomorrow. Americans took it for granted in the past. We can no
longer afford to do so. Coal represents one immediate and dependable answer
to the question of how we solve our energy needs in this Nation.
392
