[234]
May 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
Obviously, you've grown substantially. And as I understand, you have better
than 1,700,000 members at the present time. And as a result of this tremendous
growth in membership, NEA has a direct contact with some 45 million young
people throughout our 50 States. And I congratulate NEA on this fine record,
not only of growth but constructive influence with the younger people over a
good many years.
This morning, I would like to take a very few minutes to indicate some of the
steps that we're taking, not only to expand the dialog with educators and educa-
tional institutions but to point out some of the things that we're trying to do
under the current circumstances.
Over the 9 months that I've been President, I've met with a number of groups
of educators, and I have had the opportunity of meeting with educators indi-
vidually as a part of other groups. And I can assure you that Secretary Wein-
berger, Assistant Secretary Trotter, and Commissioner Bell will continue their
efforts, and I will be delighted to do so myself.
I'm very proud of the fact that the first piece of legislation that I signed upon
becoming President was the education amendments act of 1974. This legisla-
tion should strengthen our educational system in many, many ways, and it
certainly is a commitment to our continued efforts of excellence in education.
I personally would like to see classroom teachers have a larger voice in Federal
policymaking. I would like to see more teachers serving in national advisory
councils and commissions, and I will instruct the Commissioner of Education to
obtain nominees from your organizations for such appointments.
If I might interject a personal comment here, I have found that there is a
tendency, not just in education but in other areas, to have a repetition of indi-
viduals who serve on one commission or another be reappointed or appointed
to other groups.
Out of 213 million Americans, we must have a lot of talent that can be drawn
upon and used in a wide variety of ways, and instead of having the same names
and the same faces, I think we can broaden this effort and draw on this great
reservoir that does exist in all 50 States.
I know that Commissioner Bell in this particular case has discussed the situa-
tion with you and, although I can't pinpoint at this very moment any particular
openings, I can assure you that we will make an honest effort, and we will get
some results.
You, I think, know even better than I that there is a great deal of work to be
done in the field of education. With declining school enrollments for the past
3 years and the projected declines that we see ahead, it will be vitally important
626
