May 2
[234]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
for us to turn our best attention to what might be done to provide employment
opportunities for teachers.
In addition, I have supported the bilingual education program and the educa-
tion of the handicapped program. These are two areas where I think we have
to put some special emphasis. Additionally, 25 percent of the revenue sharing
funds, according to the statisticians, have been sent to State and local govern-
ments and have gone to education either directly or indirectly.
And we're also, in this Administration, putting together our proposals for a
new vocational education bill that should strengthen that aspect of our total
education system. We've been emphasizing the need to build a stronger work-
ing relationship between education on the one hand and the world of work
on the other. One of the first speeches I made on becoming President was at
Ohio State University-and whenever anybody from Michigan says that, they
think of some of those whippings we've taken-[laughter]—but anyhow, that
particular theme or thrust is something that I think we have to emphasize, and
we will.
And I was pleased to see a new career education law that was passed with the
support of this Administration and with the funding of this Administration.
Now, you have heard from both John Dunlop and Frank Zarb in their par-
ticular fields. Of course, we do have other problems that are of a serious nature—
inflation, the recession-but I am confident—and there are some bright clouds
beginning to appear—that we can get our economy moving. And once that is
done, I hope to take some new and major initiatives in education at the Fed-
eral level.
For instance, one of the great needs in this country today is to have parents
who understand how to help their own children grow and mature and develop
to the fullest potential. The Administration is already supporting some pilot
projects to develop and test curriculum materials for teaching high school
youngsters how to foster intellectual growth and moral development in pre-
school children, of course, anticipating the day when they themselves will be-
come parents.
Such materials are also being developed for parents of young children. A TV
pilot program will soon be developed to foster such skills in the parents of young
children. As courses in more effective parenting become widespread, this will,
of course, mean more teaching jobs.
I'm as concerned as you are that we strengthen our education system through
a balanced program of local, State, and Federal funding. I was pleased to see the
emphasis in the new Elementary and Secondary Education Act on Federal
627
