[35]
January 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
But whether you win or lose, Bob, you and the other leaders in the American
labor movement and all Americans are going to be winners in our struggle-
and I mean, in the broadest sense, our struggle-over the real problems that face
our Nation. For when America wins, America's labor wins. And all Americans
are in our problems together, and together we will forge for the benefit of all
a new direction for all of our great country.
I am honored to attend your testimonial, Bob, and may I make this presenta-
tion and wish you well as you compete with those old pros.
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:36 p.m. in the
International Ballroom at the Washington Hilton
Hotel. He was introduced by Michael J. Brennan,
36
secretary-treasurer of the Wood, Wire, and Metal
Lathers International Union.
The President's News Conference of
January 21, 1975
STATEMENT ON THE ENERGY PROGRAM
THE PRESIDENT. [1.] Before getting into questions, I would like to take a few
moments to briefly review with you several critical energy issues.
The energy decisions which I announced as a part of my State of the Union
Address resulted from the most comprehensive review this Nation has ever
had of our energy problems. This study demonstrated that there are only three
basic alternatives.
The first-to continue doing what we have been doing. I have rejected this,
because if we do continue, we will be importing 25 percent more oil by 1977.
By 1985, we will be dependent on foreign sources for more than half of our oil.
This would subject the economy of the United States to very serious disruption
if these supplies were once again curtailed. The embargo of 1973 occurred during
a period when a little more than one-third of our oil came from foreign sources.
The disruptions we suffered then were just a small taste of what would likely
happen in the event of a future embargo when we would be far more vulnerable.
Some have suggested rationing as the second alternative. I can understand
why many in Congress and elsewhere are attempting to find a solution which
does not entail sacrifice and hardship. But there is no easy solution, and I never
promised one.
I believe that those who propose rationing do not have a clear understanding
of what their plan would entail for the American people. Many of us, of course,
60
