[217]
April 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
its freedom as well as its respect for law. Let us, at last, fulfill the constitutional
promise of domestic tranquillity for all of our law-abiding citizens.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:57 p.m. in Woolsey
Hall at the Yale University Law School. In his
opening remarks, he referred to Kingman Brewster,
Jr., president of Yale University, Abraham S. Gold-
stein, dean of the Yale University Law School, and
Bartholomew Guida, mayor of New Haven, Conn.
218
Remarks to Participants in an Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority
Regional Conference in Alexandria, Virginia. April 26, 1975
I WAS at a meeting here where I was dropping by to make some remarks to
two other meetings. I was delighted to have the invitation to just stop by and
say hello. I wish that I could stay and enjoy the full evening with you, but I am
delighted just to have an opportunity to say hello and to wish you the very best.
I can tell you from my experiences with some of those of you who I have met
before, that this Administration is anxious, most anxious that we have an
opportunity to sit down together, to work together in the solution of some of
the problems that affect all of us 213 million Americans.
Let me say that although we have gone through some very difficult times in
the last 9 months or more, I happen to have great faith in the character, the
strength, the vision of all of our fellow Americans, and this means the friends
that all of us have in 50 States throughout the United States.
The disappointments we have had in foreign policy, the problems we have
had with the economy are all problems that we wish were not on our
shoulders. But we have to deal with the reality, and although we, in almost
200 years, have not fulfilled the great dream that our forefathers wanted for each
and every one of us, I don't think we should be disappointed, because it is our
job, like those who preceded us, to help fulfill that dream.
Each of us in our own way can make a contribution to that grand fulfillment,
so that your children and my children and their children can have the benefits
of the dream that was written in the Declaration of Independence, in the Con-
stitution some 200 years ago—the dream that is going to be fulfilled with your
help and what I can contribute and what thousands and thousands of others
can contribute in the months and years ahead.
I am an optimist. Our problems overseas will be resolved. Our difficulties at
home can be handled and moved ahead so that all of us will be much better off.
594
