[354]
June 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
circumstances, because an unhealthy economy in the United States and world-
wide is not in their best interest.
Q. Mr. President, are you making any current efforts to persuade the oil-
producing nations not to increase their prices this autumn, as they have threat-
ened, and are you meeting with any success?
THE PRESIDENT. We are seeking to solidify our consumer nation organiza-
tion so that we act in concert when we have to meet with the producing nations.
And equally importantly, I am trying to get the United States Congress to
do something affirmatively in the field of energy so we don't have to worry about
OPEC price increases.
ENERGY CONSERVATION
[15.] Q. Mr. President, on energy, much of the country does not seem to
think that we have a real energy crisis. People are acting as if there is no tomor-
row. And part of the problem may be that our leadership should show in a
personal way how we can save energy. Could you tell us, sir, what you per-
sonally are doing, what the White House is doing, and what the Administra-
tion is doing to lead and show how we can save energy?
THE PRESIDENT. Secretary Morton, who is the head of the energy council
in the White House, has been working with every department of the Federal
Government to get them to reduce the consumption of energy-electricity.
We have taken other steps that are probably less significant but, I think, in
the overall are helpful. In the White House, we try to be as conservative as
possible in the utilization of electrical energy. I haven't checked the figures, but
we do our best in that regard.
Q. Sir, in this line, would you endorse something that might save a great deal
of energy and also strike a blow for male liberation, for example, endorse some-
thing like sportshirts for summer wear in Washington, D.C., and other hot
climates?
The President. Well, I am a great believer in that attire, but I am not sure
that that would be too significant in the saving of energy, the kind of energy
we are talking about.
Yes, Mr. Beckman [Aldo Beckman, Chicago Tribune].
SOVIET INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES
[16.] Q. Mr. President, the Rockefeller Commission was told about exten-
sive electronic surveillance by Soviet intelligence agents and American ability
to piggyback onto that monitoring. Can you tell us how long that has been
going on and what is being done about it?
876
