May 19
[268]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
could save consumers billions of dollars annually and conserve substantial
amounts of scarce energy resources.
While I recognize the state of our entire transportation system needs treat-
ment, I am well aware that the Nation's railroads are in a crisis. Large parts
of the rail system are in a state of physical deterioration. Some railroads are in
bankruptcy and others are on the brink of financial collapse. For this reason,
I am sending to the Congress railroad reform proposals first, and I urge action
without delay.
The rail problem has been neglected too long and the desperate condition of
the industry is indicative of this neglect. We must begin at once a major and
massive initiative to restore the vitality of this essential industry. I have estab-
lished for this Administration a goal that calls for the complete revitalization
of the Nation's railroad system so it can serve the needs of modern America.
We are moving forward with a program to assure a healthy, progressive rail
system. The Railroad Revitalization Act is a critical part of this program. I have
directed the Secretary of Transportation to lead this effort and to make its
achievement one of his prime concerns.
A major problem faced by the railroad industry is outdated and excessive
Federal regulation. Much regulation, originally imposed to prevent monopoly
abuses and promote development in the western States, has long since outlived
its original purposes. Indeed, Federal regulation has grown so cumbersome that
it retards technical innovation, economic growth, and improved consumer serv-
ices. The legislation I propose will improve significantly the regulatory climate
in which all railroads operate. Removal of unnecessary and excessive regulatory
constraints will enable this low-cost, energy-efficient form of transportation to
operate more effectively, to provide better service, and to more fully realize its
great potential. The increased efficiencies resulting from these reforms will pro-
duce energy savings on the order of 70,000 barrels of oil per day.
In addition to improving the regulatory environment in which the Nation's
rail system functions, this legislation will make available to the rail industry
financial assistance which it must have to accomplish necessary modernization
of outdated plant and equipment. This assistance will be in the form of $2
billion in long-term loan guarantees so that the Nation's railroads can repair
deteriorating roadways and obtain badly needed modern equipment and fa-
cilities at reasonable costs. In addition, discriminatory State taxation of the rail
industry will be outlawed.
The legislation will also provide special procedures to hasten major restruc-
turing of the rail industry by enabling the Secretary of Transportation, as a
691
