April 18
[197]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
President Lincoln had relit the lamps of reason and the lamps of hope. He had
rekindled pride in America.
Over 100 years ago, as the Nation celebrated its Centennial, America looked
to the future. Our Nation had emerged from an agricultural, frontier society
into the industrial age. Our towns were beginning to evolve into the cities of
the 20th century. Rail transportation and telegraph were tying this vast con-
tinent together. When we celebrated our 100th birthday, one of the themes
was: "While proud of what we have done, we regret that we have not done
more."
There was certainly more to do and more people to do the job. Immigrants
were pouring into America. They were welcomed by these words inscribed on
the Statute of Liberty: "I lift my lamp beside the golden door." The great in-
crease in the number of Americans made us a formidable force in the world.
That force was soon needed.
World War I saw American troops fight and die in Europe for the first time.
Many Americans were disappointed and disillusioned by the aftermath of the
war. They found the causes for which they fought unachieved. The American
people rejected foreign entanglements and withdrew into a separate existence.
They wanted to be left alone.
In 1941, the United States was attacked, and once more we went to war—this
time across the Pacific as well as the Atlantic. We were proud of this country
and what it was achieving for liberty around the world.
Yet, still another time, following victory over our enemies, the American
public was jarred and disillusioned by the postwar years. They discovered there
would be no real peace. Europe was divided in two on V-E Day. In the words of
Churchill, “An iron curtain has descended across the continent.” America had
become the stronghold of liberty.
President Truman instituted a bipartisan foreign policy of containment, co-
operation, and reconstruction. The Marshall Plan moved to reconstruct the
free world; the United Nations was born. But the cold war had already begun.
Soon, all too soon, America was again at war under the banner of the United
Nations in Korea.
Little did we know then that American troops would only a decade later be
fighting still another war in Asia, culminating in a broken peace agreement in
Vietnam.
In the 200 years of our existence, it is not war and disillusionment which have
triumphed. No, it is the American concept and fulfillment of liberty that have
527
