[169]
April 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
themselves, I am glad to report that our economy is starting to show tentative
signs that the worst may be behind us after too long a period of recession
and inflation. This does not mean that all of our troubles are over. Obviously,
a few flowers do not mean that spring has really come. Unemployment remains
too high, and industrial production remains too sluggish.
Yet, this spring has brought some encouraging indications. There has been
an easing in price increases suggesting quite specifically a lessening of in-
flationary tendencies. Interest rates have moved downward. Retail sales have
held surprisingly well. Inventory liquidation has been moving very rapidly
and beginning to show some leveling off. As this reduction progresses, pro-
duction and employment will turn upward. My good friends in the auto-
motive industry back in my home State, according to their production sched-
ules, are looking a bit more optimistic. Thousands, in many areas of the
country, of unemployed workers are beginning to be called back.
People are showing a new confidence in the future, and the reports from
some of the survey organizations show that consumer confidence is beginning
to turn in the right direction. And I am optimistic that we will lick the prob-
lem of an economic recession and soon be on the road on an upward basis.
Now, last year I recommended to the Congress, and later signed into law,
two new measures that were essential and absolutely mandatory to aid un-
employed workers. One of these measures provided up to some 13 additional
weeks of benefits for individuals who tragically, for reasons beyond their
control, were part of the unemployment compensation system. The second
measure provided up to 26 weeks of special unemployment assistance to work-
ers whose jobs had not been previously covered. Tragically, as we have moved
through this very difficult economic period, people are beginning to exhaust
benefits in both of these new programs.
Accordingly, I will recommend to the Congress, as soon as it returns from
its recess, the following actions. I think they are needed and necessary as we
begin to move on the upward part of the curve.
First, an additional 13 weeks of benefits to be made available to those
individuals who have exhausted their present entitlement under the new
Federal supplemental benefits program. This would raise the overall entitle-
ment of most workers in the unemployment compensation system to a maxi-
mum of 65 weeks.
For the benefits of those 12 million individuals who had not been previously
protected by the unemployment compensation program, I am proposing that
the present 1-year, temporary program be extended until the end of '76.
436
