July 10
[392]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
origin, some are relatively new, but each of you have a very definite mission, and
you have some monumental problems to face.
As I said at the outset, this is the first meeting of this kind, and I do get a sense
that perhaps subsequent meetings would be in order.
I do feel that the Congress will be responsive to the effort that is being made
by you and by us, and I am certain that your relations in this area with the
Congress will be improved, particularly if you respond to what they are suggest-
ing and what we are approving.
Actually, there are five followup actions that I would like to emphasize:
Each Chairman, I hope, will give further attention to the cost-to-benefit anal-
ysis of the commissions under their chairmanship. I think it is absolutely es-
sential that we fully understand the economic costs of your activities in order to
take concrete steps to achieve these reforms. And to facilitate this understanding,
I would hope that you would actually issue the cost-to-benefit analyses on your
major programs. This would parallel the inflation impact statements that are
required of the various Federal departments and agencies in the executive branch
of the Government. And they would coincide with the requirement now in the
House of Representatives for an inflation impact statement on every major legis-
lative proposal that is submitted to the House as a whole.
Secondly, I would ask that you undertake a comprehensive and specific re-
view of all areas where regulatory delays presently occur in order to eliminate
any of the impediments to a speedy and an effective process. I think it makes
sense to set a goal of 6 months to see if you can, in a demonstrative way, show
a reduction in any of the regulatory delays that you know, better than I and
better than others, take place.
Third, I would ask that you study and revise the procedures as they are
appropriate to ensure that you are responsive to the legitimate consumer interests
and that your actions are more clearly understood by the American people.
Fourth, that you should consider the most fundamental changes that would
move us toward deregulation in areas where the regulatory process no longer
makes sense. And I think Chairman Nassikas ยน has made a very valid point in
the case of deregulation of natural gas.
In some areas, it is increasingly clear that more competition is a better reg-
ulator than the Government itself. I know some of the agencies are moving in
this same direction with respect to deregulation of certain aspects, such as in
the case of the CAB.
ยน Chairman of the Federal Power Commission.
953
