[166]
April 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
but I have made no categorical announcement to that effect. But the matter is
not being neglected.
WARREN COMMISSION REPORT
[13.] Q. Mr. President, in light of current concerns regarding the assassina-
tion of President Kennedy and the recent showings of the Zapruder films, do you
still have the same confidence in the finding of the Warren Commission that
you had as a member of that Commission?
THE PRESIDENT. I think you have to read very carefully what the Warren
Commission said. And I, as a member of the Warren Commission, helped to
participate in the drafting of the language. We said that Lee Harvey Oswald was
the assassin. We said that the Commission had found no evidence of a con-
spiracy, foreign or domestic. Those words were very carefully drafted. And so
far, I have seen no evidence that would dispute the conclusions to which we
came.
We were most careful, because in 1963 and '64, when we most carefully
analyzed all the evidence available, there was none of the involvement of any-
body-or anybody as a group-in the assassination.
It is my understanding that the Rockefeller Commission may, if the facts
seem to justify it, take a look at it—at the problem—and I suspect that the House
and Senate committees that are currently investigating CIA history may do the
same.
But the Commission was right when it made its determination, and it was
accurate, at least to this point-and I want to reemphasize that—as to the evidence
that we saw.
VIETNAM CONFLICT
[14.] Q. Mr. President, some people are saying this week that despite all our
massive aid in Vietnam and all the lives that were lost there, that the whole thing
has come to nothing. Now, how do you feel about this, and do you think there
is any lesson to be learned in what has been happening over there?
THE PRESIDENT. I believe that the program of the previous four or five Presi-
dents-President Kennedy, President Johnson, President Nixon, and myself—
were aimed in the right direction, that we should help those people who are
willing to fight for freedom for themselves.
That was a sound policy. Unfortunately, events that were beyond our control
as a country have made it appear that that policy was wrong. I still believe that
policy was right if the United States had carried it out, as we promised to do at
the time of the Paris peace accords, where we promised, with the signing of the
420
