[375]
July 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
interest. I refer to the interest of 81 million Federal taxpayers who must pick
up the tab for each of those new spending bills, either through more taxes or
more inflation-in some instances, both. I take that responsibility very
seriously.
The American people have a right to expect their President to protect their
interests. That is one reason the veto power exists in the Constitution and why
I will use it when necessary. In fact, my use of the Presidential veto over the
last 10 months alone-I had this checked and it is accurate-in the last 10 months
alone, we have saved the American taxpayers $6 billion by 1977.
But let me add, there is another important part of the Presidential veto which
has not been adequately discussed—the positive side. The veto is not a negative
dead end device. In most cases, it is a positive means of achieving legislative
compromise and improvement-better legislation, in other words.
For example, I recently asked the Congress to appropriate $1,900 million for
summer jobs for young people and adequate funding for additional public
service jobs to deal with temporary unemployment. Congress, unfortunately
and unwisely, added $3 billion on its own for a wide variety of miscellaneous
programs. I considered these additions to be too inflationary. They couldn't be
justified, so I used the veto.
But that wasn't the end of the legislative process. After most Republicans
joined with some discerning Democrats to sustain my veto in the House, the
Congress worked out a mutually acceptable compromise. And the important
ingredient in this whole process is: This system of constitutional checks and bal-
ances, which our Founding Fathers so carefully constructed, is essential to good
government in this country.
But in a larger sense, another basic tenet of our Founding Fathers-inde-
pendence—can be the inspiration for our policies here at home, just as interde-
pendence is the foundation of our policies abroad.
As a first step, I sincerely believe it is time for us to declare our inde-
pendence from governmental bureaucracies grown too large, too powerful, too
costly, too remote, and yet, too deeply involved in our day-to-day lives. Even
though there are many things government must do for people, there are many,
many more things that people would rather do for themselves.
With the Depression of the 1930's—and some of us can remember that—
began the policy of creating a new layer of Federal bureaucracy for every
problem in America and then spending millions and then spending billions in
the hope that money alone would solve the problem.
But the Depression policies of the 1930's, on which Democratic-controlled
922
