February 3
[64]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
FOREIGN RELATIONS.-In addition to maintaining a strong defense capability,
the United States strives, through its diplomacy, to develop and maintain peace-
ful relationships among nations. Foreign assistance is both an expression of our
humanitarian concern and a flexible instrument of diplomacy. Our assistance
in Indochina is making an essential contribution to the security and reconstruc-
tion of the countries in that region. Additional military assistance is now neces-
sary to enable the South Vietnamese and Cambodian Governments to defend
themselves against increasing military pressure. Our assistance in the Middle
East is an integral part of our diplomatic effort to continue progress toward a
peaceful solution to the area's problems. An increasing portion of our economic
aid program is devoted to helping developing countries improve their agricul-
tural productivity.
Higher oil prices, widespread food shortages, inflation, and spreading reces-
sion have severely strained the fabric of international cooperation. The United
States has undertaken several major diplomatic initiatives designed to help
restore international economic stability. Our diplomatic efforts were instru-
mental in the establishment of the International Energy Agency and its pro-
gram, which provides for emergency oil sharing, conservation efforts, and
development of alternative energy sources. More recently, the United States
proposed a $25 billion special financing facility to assist industrialized countries
in dealing with balance of payments difficulties. This new facility will supple-
ment expanded operations of the International Monetary Fund. At the World
Food Conference, in Rome, the United States proposed a number of measures
to deal with the world food problem, including creation of an international
system of grain reserves.
In addition, the Trade Act passed by the Congress last December will make
possible a strengthening of international trade relations by enabling the United
States to work with other nations toward reducing tariff and nontariff barriers
to trade and improving access to supplies.
The strengthening of international trade and financial cooperation is essential
if we and other nations are to cope successfully with current economic stresses.
It is a prerequisite for renewed economic progress at home and abroad.
DOMESTIC ASSISTANCE
The enormous growth in recent decades of Federal programs for assistance to
individuals and families, and to State and local governments, has placed heavy
demands on the budget. This growth expressed the desire of a compassionate
157
