April 15
[187]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
That doesn't mean fiscal restraint one day and fiscal irresponsibility the next.
It is a consistent, strong pattern of fiscal responsibility day after day after day
after day, and that is the way we will win.
The one thing we must do-and I speak very candidly-is to slam the brakes
on some of the spending schemes that I see coming down the legislative agenda
in the House as well as in the Senate, promoted primarily by the Democratic
majority in the Congress, schemes which could, as I add the figures, run the
1976 budget-a 12-month budget-up by as much as $100 billion.
Can you imagine a deficit, which is totally possible if we don't put the clamps
on, of $100 billion? What concerns me is that if we add a little every day, a little
every day, a little every day, a little more every day—all with individual good
promise and good prospects and good intentions-pretty soon it is a $100 billion
deficit. That ought to scare us all. It scares me.
A $52 billion deficit is bad enough, and I am not proud of it, but every time
Congress acts to add a little, a little, a little, it gets worse and worse and worse.
So, I ask you in all honesty that we end these schemes, that we hold the lid.
If we don't—and I say this with the deepest conviction as I look down the road
with all the prognostications of experts-if we don't do something in a rela-
tively short period of time, one-half of all Americans will be living off the taxes
of the other half of Americans. Is that what you want your government function
to be? I don't think so.
May I add very quickly: Never forget, a government big enough to give us
everything we want is a government big enough to take from us everything
we have.
A second principle upon which Republicans are agreed—although I do not
want to suggest it as a partisan principle, because many fine Democrats also
support it and I thank them—is the need for a strong national defense posture
as the only sure way to a peaceful world.
At a time of international uncertainty and stress such as the immediate pres-
ent, the need to keep our military forces strong and alert should be obvious
to every American.
We must guard our own national security and maintain the mutual strength
of our alliances in Western Europe and in the Far East, keep our vital commit-
ments to long-term friends, and keep pace in research and development of
future defense systems if our recent progress toward reducing the dangers of
war is to continue. Obviously, an essential element of our modern national secu-
rity system is a sound intelligence system. And I do not intend to permit ours
to be either publicized or paralyzed in times like these.
491
