June 24
[350]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
people exchange, which is the result of, I think, the betterment of relations
between the Soviet Union and the United States.
It is our hope that incidents like this can be expanded in the months ahead
in the best interests of the United States, as well as the Soviet Union and others,
to broaden our exchange, to widen our friendship in the best interests of not
only our people but the people of the world as a whole.
I thank you very, very much, General.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:56 p.m. in the Rose
Garden at the White House. Lt. Gen. Aleksandr
Belyakov and Col. Gen. Georgi Baidukov were visit-
ing the United States at the invitation of the Van-
couver Transpolar Flight Commemorative Commit-
tee. With them was Col. Igor Chkalov, whose father,
V. P. Chkalov, the third pilot on the flight, died in
1939.
349
Statement on the Death of Eugene C. Pulliam.
June 24, 1975
MRS. FORD and I are deeply grieved at the death of Gene Pulliam. His dedica-
tion and integrity made him a giant in the publishing industry for some 60
years. Betty and I send our deepest sympathy to his wife, Nina, his family, and
friends. A great publisher and a great American, Gene Pulliam will be sorely
missed.
NOTE: Mr. Pulliam was president and publisher of the Indianapolis Star and News, the Phoenix Gazette, and
the Arizona Republic.
350
Remarks at a News Briefing Announcing Measures To Assist
the Housing Industry. June 24, 1975
I WOULD like to make a relatively short statement, and then Secretary Hills
will follow with an extensive briefing.
To help speed the recovery already underway in the housing industry, whose
health is absolutely vital to our overall economic recovery, I have today directed
Secretary Hills, head of Housing and Urban Development, to release $2 billion
in previously authorized Federal funds to assist in the purchase of home mort-
gages. This action will immediately make new mortgage money available to
home buyers. To help put more workers in the building trades back to work,
I am requesting the Congress to authorize an additional $7,750 million for this
program and to extend it for another year until July 1, 1976.
857
