July 3
[374]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
was set by politicians and theorists who advocated massive spending as a sure-
fire cure for everything that ailed us.
In the past 15 years alone, enormous Federal deficits were used to finance
unprecedented domestic spending. Too many of these expenditures produced
short-term benefits for some Americans while inflicting long-term damage on
all Americans.
Many of those whom the program sought to help—the poor, the elderly, the
disadvantaged—are now bearing the inflationary burden of Uncle Sam's 15-year
spending spree.
It is my observation that the American people are awakening to this problem.
And this wonderful attendance here is the best evidence that I have seen. And I
thank you all for participating. The American people, as I see it, are beginning
to realize that our society, our national economic family, must live by somewhat
the same rules that every other family does. We can't spend more than we earn
without endless borrowing.
The borrowing and spending, as I see it, must end—and end now. I can't
promise you it will end tomorrow, but I think we have to keep the pressure on
and the screws on, and we must stop falling for short-term solutions at the cost
of long-term setbacks.
In addition to overspending, recent years have seen a very dangerous and costly
trend toward overregulation by the Federal Government, as Jim Rhodes indi-
cated in his introduction.
Over a period of 90 years, we have gradually erected a massive Federal regula-
tory system. Some of the basic regulations, I concede, are necessary, but many, if
not most, are not. And the whole regulatory structure is encrusted with contradic-
tions and excesses and rules that have outlived any conceivable value.
Let me give you an example of how overregulation from Washington affects
you right here in the Ohio Valley.
Back in the days when natural gas was seemingly an inexhaustible resource, the
Congress decided to regulate it. Since then, conditions have changed drastically,
but the Congress has done nothing. And this Congressional inaction, this stub-
born clinging to an obsolete regulation, has resulted in a serious gas shortage that
is damaging your businesses, your industries, and costing our working people
jobs. And it will get worse and worse and worse if Congress doesn't do some-
thing about it.
The problem is very basic: For the past 20 years, the Federal Power Commis-
sion has set artificially low prices at the wellhead for natural gas sold in interstate
markets. The result has been that gas producers sell as much of their product as
917
