[4]
January 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
effects on the Nation's economy. Moreover, such prices would ultimately be
damaging to the dairy industry and milk producers.
Consumers are resisting prices they must now pay for milk and other dairy
products. To artificially force prices still higher, as this legislation would do,
would result in further declines in consumption and be a strong stimulus to
excess milk production.
To further reduce the demand for milk and dairy products by the increased
prices provided in this legislation would be detrimental to the dairy industry.
A dairy farmer cannot be well served by Government action that prices his
product out of the market. It also would be detrimental since the Government
would be required to buy the large surpluses of manufactured dairy products
which this legislation would generate. This would cost taxpayers more than $400
million during the life of the bill.
It is clearly in the best interests of producers, consumers, taxpayers, and the
Government that this legislation not be signed into law.
The White House,
January 3, 1975.
GERALD R. FORD
5
Statement on Signing a Bill Establishing Rules of
Evidence in Federal Court Proceedings. January 3, 1975
I HAVE approved H.R. 5463, a bill establishing for the first time in our his-
tory uniform rules of evidence on the admissibility of proof in Federal court
proceedings.
Enactment of this code culminates some 13 years of study by distinguished
experts on the Federal judicial system. It will lend greater uniformity, accessi-
bility, and intelligibility to Federal rules of evidence.
I salute the efforts of the Advisory Committee on Rules of Evidence and the
Standing Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure of the Judicial Con-
ference of the United States, the Chief Justice and Associate Justices of the
Supreme Court, the members of the Senate Committee on the Judiciary, the
members of the House Subcommittee on Criminal Justice, and officials of the
Department of Justice. Their joint efforts in a healthy spirit of compromise
were essential to the completion of this new legal legislation.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 5463, approved January 2, 1975, is Public Law 93-595 (88 Stat. 1926).
6
