June 19
[341]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
eral role in the fight against crime, particularly violent crime, is a limited one.
With few exceptions, the kinds of crime that obsess America—murders, rob-
beries, rapes, muggings, hold-ups, breakins-are solely within the jurisdiction
of State and local governments. Thus, while the programs that I will propose
in this message will, if enacted, contribute to a safer America, the level of crime
will not be substantially reduced unless State and local governments themselves
enact strong measures.
I see three ways in which the Federal government can play an important
role in combating crime:
First, it can provide leadership to State and local governments by enacting
a criminal code than can serve as a model for other jurisdictions to follow and
by improving the quality of the Federal criminal justice system.
Second, it can enact and vigorously enforce laws covering criminal conduct
within the Federal jurisdiction that cannot be adequately regulated at the State
or local level.
Third, it can provide financial and technical assistance to State and local gov-
ernments and law enforcement agencies, and thereby enhance their ability to
enforce the law.
I. PROVIDING LEADERSHIP
Law Enforcement in a democratic society depends largely upon public respect
for the laws and voluntary compliance with them. We do not have and do not
want a police state. Respect and compliance are undermined if individuals con-
clude that law enforcement efforts are ineffective and that crimes may be com-
mitted with impunity—conclusions which are buttressed by rapidly rising crime
rates and by statistics showing only one arrest for every five serious crimes
committed.
A decline in respect for the law leads to the commission of more crimes. The
necessity to investigate these additional crimes, prosecute those accused, and
punish those convicted places even greater strain on the already overburdened
capacities of police, prosecutors, public defenders, courts, penal institutions and
correctional authorities. As a consequence, the percentage of offenders appre-
hended, prosecuted and appropriately sentenced is further reduced. This leads
to an even greater decline in respect for the law and to the commission of even
more crimes. To succeed in the effort to reduce crime, we must break this spiral.
There are two direct ways to attack the spiral of crime. One is through im-
841
