February 10
[82]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
availability, to restrain energy demand, and to prepare for energy emergencies
and for other purposes. One hundred sixty-seven pages.
Now, I have in my hand here the bill the Congress has been working on since
January 14: four pages. And let me read the title of what Congressional action
calls for: To suspend, for a 90-day period, the authority of the President under
Section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act.
I ask you, in all sincerity, which makes more sense: a program that is compre-
hensive, put together for the purpose of conservation and for increased produc-
tion, or a piece of legislation of four pages suspending the power of the President
to do anything about the problem?
It is so patently obvious to me that a program and a plan is needed, not a step
backward. It is quite obvious, I should say, that in my judgment, my program is
far superior to any system of allocations, of quotas, or rationing. And that is what
we have heard from the Congress most of the time thus far—either allocations,
quotas, or gasoline rationing.
I don't think allocation or rationing can be fair and equitable to the con-
sumer. Neither one can stimulate energy independence. They cannot produce
1 barrel of oil, not 1 gallon of gasoline. Furthermore, such a program would be
administratively burdensome, substituting bureaucratic judgment for the inter-
play of the free marketplace. It would be costly-about $2 billion a year accord-
ing to some estimates I have seen—just to administer.
In short, I think it would be a very serious mistake not to make maximum use
of the marketplace to achieve our national goals. There is no doubt, in my
judgment, it offers the best and the most equitable solution. The promised land
of allocations and rationing would turn out to be a jungle, a jungle of redtape,
bureaucratic judgment, inequities, and other problems.
And speaking of rationing, let me just mention a fact or two: The proponents
of rationing seek to create the impression that it would just be a 6-month or a 12-
month rationing program of gasoline. If we are going to lick the energy problem
in this country, it has to be a 5- or 10-year program. So, what our public would
have to understand is that a gasoline rationing program would involve a 5- to
10-year gasoline rationing program and, yet, it would not stimulate production.
Everybody, of course, when they talk about gasoline rationing, understandably
believes that he or she will get all of the gasoline that they think they deserve, and
everybody else will be called upon to make a sacrifice. Well, the facts are there
will be, if we get into gasoline rationing-over my dead body-then we would
have 140-some million licensed automobile drivers in the United States, and
that we have 290-some million gallons of gasoline per day. What does that
211
