[329]
June 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
329
Remarks at Ceremonies Commemorating the Bicentennial of
the United States Army at Fort Benning, Georgia.
June 14, 1975
Thank you very, very much, General Tarpley. Governor Busbee, Senators Spark-
man, Talmadge, and Nunn, distinguished Members of the House of Rep-
resentatives from the States of Georgia and of Alabama, Secretary Callaway,
distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
It is a very, very great honor for me to be here in Fort Benning, the home of the
Infantry, and to join with the citizens of Columbus and Phenix City as well to
make this a real tri-community celebration. You have made coming from the
banks of the Potomac to the valley of the Chattahoochee a very memorable
experience.
You know, one of these things I have always admired about our men in
uniform is their ever-present sense of humor. And what brought this to mind—
as we were walking over here Major General Tarpley told me how impressed
all of Fort Benning was with the way I came out of Air Force One and down
those steps in Salzburg, Austria. I asked him what he meant. He said, “Well, it is
the first time we ever saw anyone come out of a plane like that and not wear a
parachute.” I told the General I was only trying to live up to one of your mottoes.
He said, “Which motto is that?” I said, “Airborne, all the way.” [Laughter]
This is a great day for the United States Army and a great day for all Ameri-
cans. Today, I am proud to join a grateful Nation in saluting the Army on its
200th year of service and sacrifice to our country.
On this day in 1775—a year before America's independence—our Second
Continental Congress created the American Army. To have meaning, the delib-
erations and debates of Independence Hall had to be backed up by strength. The
decisions made there had to be defended at Bunker Hill and on a dozen other
battlefields across this new Nation.
It was a bold step from which there could be no retreat. It was a recognition
of the realities of the world in which the colonists lived and in which we live
today; that there are times when principles must be defended by the force of
arms.
Since that day in 1775, our soldiers have protected and preserved this Nation
at home and throughout the world.
814
