[154]
March 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
considered for designation as beneficiary developing countries after certain
determinations are made, statutory conditions are met or statutory requirements
fulfilled pursuant to Section 502 of the Trade Act.
Sincerely,
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters to the
Honorable Carl Albert, Speaker of the House of
Representatives, and the Honorable Nelson A.
Rockefeller, President of the Senate.
GERALD R. FORD
On the same day, the President signed Executive
Order 11844 designating beneficiary developing
countries for the generalized system of preferences.
155
Statement on the Death of King Faisal Ibn Abdul Aziz of
Saudi Arabia. March 25, 1975
IT WAS with the deepest sorrow that I learned of the tragic death of His
Majesty King Faisal, a close friend of the United States and a leader who
achieved so much for his people and those of the Arab world and Islam and
whose wisdom and stature earned the respect of the entire world. On behalf of
the American people, I wish to extend my deepest sympathy to the Royal Family
and to the people of Saudi Arabia, whose grief we share.
NOTE: King Faisal was assassinated by his nephew,
Prince Faisal Ibn Musaid Abdul Aziz, in Riyadh,
Saudi Arabia, on March 25, 1975. Vice President
Rockefeller left for Saudi Arabia on the evening of
March 25 to express the President's condolences to
Crown Prince Khalid, King Faisal's successor.
156
Memorandum on Federal Employment of the Handicapped.
March 25, 1975
[Dated March 24, 1975. Released March 25, 1975]
Memorandum for Heads of Executive Departments and Agencies
The Federal Government firmly advocates equal employment opportunities
for all Americans. In this context, I pledge my Administration to the employ-
ment and full utilization of handicapped persons in staffing the Federal service.
Let the emphasis rest upon the individual's ability rather than his or her disa-
bility. The handicapped have proved that they are efficient, effective, and pro-
ductive workers. They can advance the Government's service to its citizens.
398
