April 4
[169]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
payers at the local level-money to be used at the local level with the discretion
of locally elected officials.
I am proud of the fact that the legislation was enacted—was it 1972, Joe?—
and to report to you that the payments to the San Francisco Bay Area from the
inception of general revenue sharing, including checks now in the mail-Joe?—
[laughter]—total well over one-quarter billion dollars.
The region, of course, to which I refer includes the county governments and
local governing bodies in the nine-county Bay Area. The total taxes returned
by Washington to the people of these counties is some $271,615,000. Pretty
precise, but I think it has been money well spent.
Fortunately, this money translates into a variety of community programs
planned by local people to fill local needs—the city of San Francisco, for instance.
General revenue sharing funds provided kitchens to feed schoolchildren and
rehabilitation of your playgrounds.
In Oakland, revenue sharing funds are used to pay the salaries of your city
firemen.
Santa Clara County has put its share into a new public park. These are
decisions by the locally elected officials, people you either elect or defeat.
The city of Santa Rosa buys gasoline to transport handicapped citizens to
the doctor.
San Mateo County provides a health care demonstration project, a rehabilita-
tion program for drug users, a treatment facility for alcoholics, a subsidy to
hospital outpatients unable to pay medical costs.
Contra Costa County designated its revenue sharing funds to cover part of
the costs of the Bay Area sewer services agency.
And an extensive social service program is conducted by this money in
Alameda County. It includes job training for welfare recipients, aid to the
mentally retarded, vocational rehabilitation of ex-convicts, legal aid and emer-
gency services to minority groups, suicide prevention activities, and other
similar programs to help people help themselves.
The point that I think is important as you go through the nine counties
and communities in the Bay Area, those decisions were predicated on what
their locally elected officials thought was most important, whatever they were,
for those particular governing units.
The list looks good to me, but at least it is a locally decided decision. I
think that is the best way for this kind of Federal aid to be spent, rather
than by rigidly controlled and dictated Federal categorical grant programs.
Now, as Americans everywhere are showing new determination to help
435
