[138]
March 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
Board, which is a very time-consuming responsibility. The Clemency Board has
had a great upsurge in applicants.
I think Father Hesburgh and the others on the Clemency Board are going to
be pretty busy in the months ahead. But let me assure you and others that
someone who has as much talent and tremendous civic interest, once that job
is over, I think we can use someone like Father Hesburgh in many more
responsibilities.
Miss Thomas [Helen Thomas, United Press International].
CAMBODIA
[2.] Q. Mr. President, you have said that the question of personalities is
really not vital to a settlement in Cambodia. My question is, is the survival of
a non-Communist government in Cambodia vital to the U.S. security in South-
east Asia?
THE PRESIDENT. Miss Thomas, I think it is. I cannot help but notice that since
the military situation in Cambodia has become very serious, and since the North
Vietnamese have apparently launched a very substantial additional military
effort against South Vietnam, against the Paris peace accords, there has been, as I
understand it, in Thailand, according to the news announcements this morning,
a potential request from Thailand that we withdraw our forces from that
country.
I noticed in the morning news summary before I left Washington that the
President of the Philippines, Mr. Marcos, is reviewing the Philippine relation-
ship with the United States.
I think these potential developments to some extent tend to validate the so-
called domino theory, and if we have one country after another, allies of the
United States, losing faith in our word, losing faith in our agreements with
them, yes, I think the first one to go could vitally affect the national security
of the United States.
Q. May I ask you one more question that has been on my mind for a long
time? Since you supported the invasion of Cambodia 5 years ago, would you
do the same today?
The President. Well, that is a hypothetical question, Miss Thomas, because
under the law I have no such authority to do so. I did support the activities then,
the so-called Cambodian incursion, because the North Vietnamese were using
that area in Cambodia for many military strikes against U.S. military personnel
in South Vietnam. It was a successful military operation. It saved many Ameri-
can lives, because those sanctuaries were destroyed.
362
