[177]
April 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
In the summer of 1931, I came from my home of Grand Rapids, Michigan,
with some 50 or 60 other young people who were just graduating from high
school, and we came to the Nation's Capital and we toured the great Capital
that we have here.
We went to the Capitol, the White House, and all of the other tremendous
buildings and activities that go on in your Capital. I have a picture taken with
50 or 60 of us standing in front of the Capitol, and I can recall very vividly
sitting in the Chamber of the House of Representatives in 1931 watching the
activities of the House of Representatives at that time.
I must have been tremendously impressed. I must have had the seed planted
that resulted in my active participation in the political arena. And after serving
25-plus years in the Congress of the United States, I am glad that I had that
inspiration from one trip to Washington, D.C.
What I am saying to all 2,000 of you is, you have seen the magnificent beauty
and the wonderful things here in your Capital. I hope that every one of the
2,000 of you go away from here with the feeling that your government is mean-
ingful, whether it is the executive branch headed by the President, or the
legislative branch headed by the Congress, or the judicial branch headed by
the Supreme Court.
All of you, each and every one of you, can make a significant contribution.
The inspiration that I hope you have gotten during your visit will mean that
in a few years—and I hope not too many-you will be back here running this
country, doing a better job than we are doing.
Now, I know that the Explorers have as two of their main functions a
career-oriented program and a leadership-directed program. It is my under-
standing by the time you complete this congress you will have heard from people
representing all sectors of our life-business, government officials, journalists,
athletes, educators, lawyers, labor leaders, and many, many others.
The truth is that there are opportunities in every segment of our society for
you and for those that you know. To make a strong country, we have to have
people in all sectors and all segments of our society.
You know, there is a saying, if I remember it correctly, in the Bible that says
the beauty of Joseph's coat is its many colors. The strength of America today
is its diversity.
For all of you to be here from all of our various States means that a cross-
456
