[134]
March 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
134
Remarks at a Dinner Marking the Issuance of a Commemorative
Stamp on Collective Bargaining. March 13, 1975
Thank you very much, Ted. Mr. Winspisinger, Ted Klassen, Ben Bailar, Bill
Usery, the two really honored guests here tonight, ladies and gentlemen:
It really is a great privilege and pleasure to have the opportunity of stopping
by, and I wish that I had an opportunity to spend more time and meet each and
every one of you individually.
I happen to think that what you represent is a most important ingredient in
our society here today. I think all of you know, even better than I, that our
American system of free collective bargaining is very uniquely deserving of this
special honor it is receiving through the issuance of this stamp.
It has been my observation, as I visited and traveled throughout the world
and as I have read history—as all of you and many others have-history has
shown that only where there is free collective bargaining is there a free society.
The stamp's theme, “Out of conflict. . . accord," is one to which every citizen
can subscribe. The fact that we have developed a strong, flexible collective bar-
gaining system stands as a tribute to the millions of men and women of both
labor and management who have devoted themselves to building a better and
better America.
I think it is quite obvious that we need to build a better America today. We
need courage, we need patience-courage to face the vital issues before us and
patience to work out just solutions.
Our people cannot live on islands of self-interest. We must build bridges and
communicate our agreements as well as our disagreements. Only then can we
honestly solve the Nation's problems. And those problems are tremendous.
Those problems need our total dedication as we move ahead.
One of the longest and sturdiest bridges in this land is collective bargaining.
Today, more than ever in the past three decades, there are really three parties
at each bargaining table-management on the one hand, labor on the other, and
the third, our national welfare.
There is an ever-growing responsibility on two sides for restraint in the inter-
est of the third party—our national interest. I most sincerely ask all of you here
this evening, and all members of labor and management teams around the
country, to remember that there is a silent partner sitting down with you at each
bargaining session, your fellow citizens everywhere.
346
