June 9
[316]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
phase of consultations, are you any more prepared to give Israel stronger
guarantees?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, my meeting with Prime Minister Rabin of Israel, which
is to be held on Wednesday and Thursday of this week, will be a meeting where
I will get his personal assessment of the overall situation in the Middle East.
We will discuss the options that I see as possible: either a resumption of the
suspended step-by-step negotiations or a comprehensive recommendation that
I would make to probably reconvene the Geneva conference or a step-by-step
process under the umbrella of the Geneva conference.
I'm going to go into these alternatives or these options in depth with Prime
Minister Rabin, and when we have concluded our discussions, I'll be in a better
position to know how our Government should proceed in trying to achieve a
broader peace, a more permanent peace, with fairness and equity in the Middle
East.
Mr. DeFrank [Tom DeFrank, Newsweek].
CANDIDACY IN 1976
[10.] Q. Thank you, Mr. President. You keep saying that you're going to
announce your candidacy for election in 1976 at the appropriate time, but
nothing happens. Are we getting any closer to that appropriate time, and if so,
can you tell us about that?
The President. You're getting closer and closer, but I have not picked a
specific time for that announcement. There is no doubt of my intention. I
reiterate it again tonight, but all I can say is we're getting closer and closer
to a specific announcement. [Laughter]
Mr. Barnes [Fred Barnes, Washington Star].
THE MIDDLE EAST
[11.] Q. Mr. President, when you were in Salzburg, you appeared to be
especially friendly with Egyptian President Sadat. Was this public display of
friendliness with him designed in any way to pressure Israel to make new
concessions toward a Middle East settlement?
THE PRESIDENT. I did enjoy my opportunity to get acquainted with President
Sadat, and I not only enjoyed his company but I benefited from his analysis of
the Middle East and related matters. But I have the same relationship with
Prime Minister Rabin. I have known him longer, and this will be the second
or third opportunity that I've had a chance to meet with him, plus my oppor-
tunities when he was the Israeli Ambassador here.
797
