[225]
May 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
Since my State of the Union Message last January, there has been no improve-
ment in the situation in the Middle East. The existing tensions only heighten
my belief that we must do everything possible to avoid increasing our de-
pendence on imported oil in the months ahead.
The recession is coming to an end. But the pending upturn will result in
greater demand for imported oil. At the same time, however, it will put us in a
better position to absorb the adjustments that greater energy conservation will
require.
There are some encouraging signs in the Congress. Chairmen Ullman and
Dingell and ranking minority members Schneebeli and Brown have been work-
ing diligently in their respective committees to formulate a comprehensive
energy program. After extensive hearings and discussions, their efforts to date
embody some elements of the energy proposals which I sent to the Congress
as well as several which could be potentially disastrous.
The Senate has also conducted many hearings. Yet the only legislation which
has passed is a bill that would impose mandatory restrictions within 60 days
on recreational and leisure travel, hours of business operation, and commercial
lighting. This bill is ineffective and unrealistic. It would result in unwarranted
government control of personal freedoms, and would cause unforeseen eco-
nomic consequences.
I am hopeful that the weeks ahead can result in agreement between the Con-
gress and the Administration. I believe it can if we are willing to work dili-
gently, honestly, and more rapidly. But I am concerned about the possibility of
the Congress passing politically popular legislation which will not only fail to
meet our energy needs but which could create serious economic problems for the
Nation. From my many years in the Congress, I know how easy it is to become
embroiled in endless debate over tough decisions. I also know how easy it is for
the Congress to enact legislation full of rhetoric and high sounding purpose, but
short of substance. That must not happen in this case.
Neither the House nor the Senate has passed one significant energy measure
acceptable to the Administration in these past few months. Hence, I must be a
realist-since the time before final legislation will be on my desk is very long.
I understand that in many ways the timing and substance is beyond the control
of the individual committee chairmen. Yet, postponement of action on my part
is not the answer. I am, therefore, taking these administration actions at this
time:
-First, I have directed the Federal Energy Administrator to implement a
program to steadily phase out price controls on old oil over two years, starting
610
