May 29
[289]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
inactions have added $7.3 billion to the 1975 deficit and $4.4 billion to the 1976
deficit.
Such an increase in the Federal budget deficit would lead to an increase in
Federal borrowing from private financial markets. These heavy Federal de-
mands for capital could deprive business firms of funds needed for moderniza-
tion and expansion of capacity.
Thus, H.R. 4481 would contribute to choking off the very economic growth it
is intended to stimulate.
To help overcome the recession and high unemployment, I have proposed, and
the Congress has enacted, a major tax cut. I have also proposed an extension of
unemployment compensation benefits, together with increases, which are in-
cluded in this bill for public service jobs and summer employment.
Further stimulus would hurt more than it would help our economy in the long
run. H.R. 4481 provides for too much stimulus, too late, and I must therefore
veto the bill.
The need remains, however, for a bill that will provide the funds I recom-
mended for immediate and temporary employment through the public sector
and summer youth jobs. Since student summer vacations are close at hand, I urge
the Congress to pass such a bill as quickly as possible.
The White House,
May 28, 1975.
NOTE: The House of Representatives sustained the President's veto on June 4, 1975.
GERALD R. FORD
289
Text of an Address Before the Council of the North Atlantic
Treaty Organization in Brussels. May 29, 1975
Mr. Secretary General, members of the Council:
President Truman, in 1949, transmitted the text of the North Atlantic Treaty
to the Congress of the United States with his assessment of its importance.
"Events of this century," he wrote, “have taught us that we cannot achieve peace
independently. The world has grown too small. The security and welfare of each
member of this community depends on the security and welfare of all. None
of us alone can achieve economic prosperity or military security. None of us
alone can assure the continuance of freedom." So spoke President Truman.
737
