[276]
May 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
one noted one in Newsweek this week-see a perceptible sliding among the
allies in Western Europe with the growth of pacifist spirit, a growth of Marxist
philosophy in certain governments in the West, and wonder and are asking
whether they are not going to end up in the embrace of the Soviet Union in
making an accommodation with the Soviet Union. Do you have any slight
fears as you set out for Europe that that is what is happening to the Western
alliance and you need to do something about it?
THE PRESIDENT. My impression is that the Western alliance is very strong
and there is no reason why it can't be made stronger. I have followed the recent
meeting of the secretaries of defense, so to speak, and the report I got back
was encouraging. We do have to upgrade, we do have to modernize our military
capability in the Alliance, and I think we will. I am convinced that in the
political area, the meeting we are going to have will be helpful and bene-
ficial in that regard.
So, although I see some problems in one or more countries internally, I
think basically the Alliance is strong. And as long as our allies in Europe see
that the United States is not going to pull out, that the United States will con-
tinue to be a strong partner, I think this will strengthen the forces favoring the
Alliance in our European allies.
MR. DE SEGONZAC. Mr. President, there are quite a number of problems in the
Alliance at this stage all along the Mediterranean border-in Portugal, in Tur-
key, in Greece. You say, however, that the Alliance is strong. Therefore, you
believe that these problems can be settled without too much difficulty?
THE PRESIDENT. I certainly recognize the problem between Greece and Turkey
involving Cyprus. It is a tragic development, unfortunate. But I am encouraged.
There have been some recent talks between the foreign ministers of Greece
and Turkey. There are to be both Karamanlis and Demirel in Brussels, and
I hope to meet with both and see if we can in any way be helpful. I think this
is a solvable problem and there is a beginning of the negotiating process that
hopefully will lead to a solution. We have to recognize that everything is not
perfect, but that does not mean we cannot solve those problems that are on our
doorstep.
MR. DE SEGONZAC. Now, Mr. President, there is another problem which is
perhaps more important still, which is the one of Portugal. It is going to make,
I suppose, discussions in NATO very difficult with a Portuguese Government
which is dominated by the Communists. How do you feel that this can be
handled? Do you think that eventually a new law or new regulation should
be made so that countries who don't follow the ideology of the Western world
712
