January 15
[28]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
higher energy taxes designed to encourage conservation must be refunded to
the American people in a manner which corrects distortions in our tax system
wrought by inflation.
People have been pushed into higher tax brackets by inflation, with conse-
quent reduction in their actual spending power. Business taxes are similarly
distorted because inflation exaggerates reported profits, resulting in excessive
taxes.
Accordingly, I propose that future individual income taxes be reduced by
$16.5 billion. This will be done by raising the low-income allowance and reduc-
ing tax rates. This continuing tax cut will primarily benefit lower- and middle-
income taxpayers.
For example, a typical family of four with a gross income of $5,600 now pays
$185 in Federal income taxes. Under this tax cut plan, they would pay nothing.
A family of four with a gross income of $12,500 now pays $1,260 in Federal
taxes. My proposal reduces that total by $300. Families grossing $20,000 would
receive a reduction of $210.
Those with the very lowest incomes, who can least afford higher costs, must
also be compensated. I propose a payment of $80 to every person 18 years of age
and older in that very limited category.
State and local governments will receive $2 billion in additional revenue shar-
ing to offset their increased energy costs.
To offset inflationary distortions and to generate more economic activity, the
corporate tax rate will be reduced from 48 percent to 42 percent.
Now let me turn, if I might, to the international dimension of the present
crisis. At no time in our peacetime history has the state of the Nation depended
more heavily on the state of the world. And seldom, if ever, has the state of the
world depended more heavily on the state of our Nation.
The economic distress is global. We will not solve it at home unless we help
to remedy the profound economic dislocation abroad. World trade and mone-
tary structure provides markets, energy, food, and vital raw materials—for all
nations. This international system is now in jeopardy.
This Nation can be proud of significant achievements in recent years in solv-
ing problems and crises. The Berlin agreement, the SALT agreements, our new
relationship with China, the unprecedented efforts in the Middle East are
immensely encouraging. But the world is not free from crisis. In a world of
150 nations, where nuclear technology is proliferating and regional conflicts
continue, international security cannot be taken for granted.
So, let there be no mistake about it: International cooperation is a vital factor
43
