February 7
[79]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Prime Minister expressed his appreciation for the contributions of the United
States Government toward the relief efforts now underway.
The Prime Minister discussed the serious shortfall experienced by Pakistan in
foodgrain production in recent months. He noted his concern with drought
conditions which persist throughout the wheat-producing areas, a problem
which has been accentuated by the unexpected delay in commissioning the
Tarbela Dam. He noted, in this regard, his appreciation for the substantial
assistance rendered Pakistan under the PL 480 program during the past several
years. President Ford told the Prime Minister that the United States Government
was pleased to be able to offer 300,000 tons of wheat under PL 480 Title I for
immediate delivery, in addition to the 100,000 tons already made available dur-
ing this fiscal year. The President assured the Prime Minister that Pakistan's
needs would continue to receive priority consideration in determining additional
allocations this year and next.
The two leaders also reviewed economic cooperation between the two coun-
tries. Prime Minister Bhutto described the important economic development pro-
grams now underway in Pakistan, including the high priorities placed on agri-
cultural development and population planning—areas in which assistance from
the United States and other donors has made a valuable contribution. President
Ford pledged continued priority attention to Pakistan's development assistance
requirements.
Prime Minister Bhutto renewed his invitation to President Ford to visit
Pakistan. President Ford expressed his warm appreciation for this invitation
and reiterated his hope that the visit would be possible later this year.
79
Remarks at the Swearing In of Edward H. Levi as
Attorney General of the United States. February 7, 1975
Mr. Vice President, Mr. Justice Powell, Acting Attorney General Silberman—
your tenure is rather short, Larry-Attorney General-designate Ed Levi, Mrs.
Levi, employees of the Department of Justice:
It is really a great occasion for me to come to the Department of Justice and
participate in this wonderful ceremony in the Great Hall of the Department
of Justice. And before making a comment or two about our new Attorney
General, let me say that I am deeply grateful to the people of the Department
of Justice who, in a period of great difficulty, turbulence, and problems of un-
203
