March 7
[127]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
genuine concern for our national well-being. Over the past three years, your
efforts to assure a better, more secure life for all Americans have earned their
gratitude and my own admiration.
Now, as you prepare to leave government, I want to thank you for your
willingness to serve this Administration and our Nation. I am grateful for your
cooperation and support and extend to you and to your family my warmest
good wishes for every success and happiness in the future.
Sincerely,
JERRY FORD
[The Honorable Rush Moody, Jr., Commissioner, Federal Power Commission, Washington, D.C. 20426]
NOTE: Mr. Moody's letter of resignation read as
follows:
Dear Mr. President:
I offer, most respectfully, notice of my intention
to resign my Commission effective at the close of
business on March 15, 1975.
I am most appreciative of the opportunity for
public service that has been mine since Novem-
ber 19, 1971. I have decided, however, to leave the
Commission because I can no longer participate in
a regulatory system which is inflicting grave damage
to our national economic structure.
I can no longer accept the lack of leadership of
the so-called "energy leaders" in Congress who, by
their refusal to recognize the failure of natural gas
regulation, continue to deceive the American people
into the belief that wellhead price regulation serves
the public interest. Nor can I accept the view that
the Commission must, in the absence of legislative
change, do no more than preside over the demise
of the interstate natural gas market.
As I am sure you perceive, the gas consumers of
this country have been betrayed by the false premise
that natural gas can be supplied indefinitely at
rates which will not permit replenishment of the
sources of supply. The disruptive effects of the
twenty-year Federal effort to make this false
premise effective are now being felt in increasing
dependence on imported oil, and massive curtail-
ments of natural gas service; tragically, the worst
effects of the regulation-induced natural gas short-
age are yet to come.
So long as I am a Commissioner, I bear a respon-
sibility for the effects of Commission action. Since
I now believe the Commission, because of legislative
shackles, is incapable of decisive action to avert
further deterioration of service to consumers, and
since the Democratic majority of the Senate and
House Commerce Committees will not permit
deregulation proposals to move out of Committee,
I am no longer willing to share responsibility for
what will ensue. I am particularly concerned that
those Democrats who control the Senate Commerce
Committee intend to give us-in place of regulatory
reform-legislation such as the Stevenson bill
(S. 701) or the Hollings bill (S. 692) which can
only operate to destroy the small gas supply effort
which now exists.
Please be assured, Mr. President, of my genuine
appreciation of your work and your leadership in
the field of regulatory reform. Your Administration
has consistently been in the forefront of the effort
to warn the American people that natural gas
regulation is contrary to the public interest, and
destructive of a vital energy supply. In these efforts,
you have my complete and unqualified support.
I wish to express also my faith in your ability
to lead this Nation through these most trying and
perilous times. If only a semblance of bipartisan
statesmanship were present in the Congress, to
assist and support and sustain your efforts, the
time of disruption and peril could be greatly
shortened. The public will demand this, sooner or
later; may God grant that it come sooner.
You have my gratitude, and that of my family,
for your service to this country.
Respectfully,
RUSH MOODY, JR.
[Honorable Gerald R. Ford, President of the United
States, The White House, Washington, D.C. 20500]
333
