April 23
[207]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Already, we owe a debt of gratitude to the Navy and Marines, particularly
under their fine leadership of our Secretary of the Navy, Bill Middendorf, for
their heroic efforts in evacuating Americans and a number of Cambodians from
the beseiged city of Phnom Penh without casualties and without a hitch. It was
a professionally planned and executed maneuver typical of what we have come
to expect from our naval forces.
Historically speaking, it is very appropriate on this occasion to talk about
seapower, for if America ever learned the importance of seapower, it was on
April 23, 1814-161 years ago today. The War of 1812 was at its height and
the British, backed up by their enormous Navy, decided on that date in 1814
to extend a blockade along the entire American coast. The small, weak, ill-
equipped American Navy could do little to stop it. The British roamed the
east coast almost at will. By August of 1814, we had even suffered the humilia-
tion of an enemy attack on Washington, D.C., and the burning of the White
House. We had been helpless to defend our own Capital City.
In the century and a half since 1814, we have been taught even more about
the importance of seapower. Perhaps Teddy Roosevelt summed it up best when
he said, “A good Navy is not provocative of war. It is the surest guarantee of
peace."
Today, even more than in the past, America is dependent on seapower. This
includes a strong merchant marine as well as a navy.
For one thing, we need free sealanes and the fast merchant ships to maintain
the crucial flow of raw materials and energy to the United States. For instance,
in 1974 alone, we imported more than 2 billion barrels of crude oil and refined
products, accounting for about 36 percent of our total domestic consumption.
Of this total, more than 90 percent was carried into this country in foreign
bottoms.
It is my policy to reverse this dependence on foreign oil by making America
energy independent. But for now, the facts are quite plain: American prosperity,
perhaps even American survival, still depends on keeping the sealanes open,
and only a strong American Navy can guarantee that result.
So, the obvious questions, quite frankly, are: What is the state of American
seapower today? What will it be in the future?
Since 1968, the size of the Navy has been cut literally in half. Today, our fleet
of 500 ships is the smallest since 1939, 2 years before Pearl Harbor. And it,
unfortunately, is still shrinking. In fact, the Navy's active fleet will be down to
490 ships by June 30, 1976, 5 days before we celebrate our 200th birthday as a
free and independent nation.
565
