June 19
[341]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
as an ordinary business expense. Other than under the antitrust laws, the max-
imum fine which can be imposed on serious violators is usually $10,000. That
amount is too often not commensurate with the crime. The maximum level
should be increased to $100,000, if the defendant is an individual, and $500,000,
if the defendant is an organization.
The sentencing provisions of the proposed code should be modified to pro-
vide judges with standards under which prison sentences are to be imposed
upon conviction. Imprisonment too seldom follows conviction, even for serious
offenses. It is my firm belief that persons convicted of violent crime should be
sent to prison. Those who prey on others, especially by violence, are very few
in number. A small percentage of the entire population accounts for a very
large proportion of the vicious crimes committed. Most serious crimes are
committed by repeaters. These relatively few persistent criminals who cause so
much worry and fear are the core of the problem. The rest of the American
people have a right to protection from their violence.
Most of the victims of violent crimes are the poor, the old, the young, the
disadvantaged minorities, the people who live in the most crowded parts of our
cities, the most defenseless. These victims have a valid claim on the rest of
society for protection and personal safety that they cannot provide for them-
selves; in a phrase, for domestic tranquility.
Imprisonment too seldom follows conviction for a felony. In the 1960's, crime
rates went higher, but the number of criminals in prison, state and federal,
actually went down. A study of one major jurisdiction showed that of all con-
victed robbers with a major prison record, only 27% were sent to prison after
conviction.
There should be no doubt in the minds of those who commit violent crimes-
especially crimes involving harm to others—that they will be sent to prison if
convicted under legal processes that are fair, prompt and certain.
I propose that incarceration be made mandatory for (1) offenders who com-
mit offenses under Federal jurisdiction using a dangerous weapon; (2) persons
committing such extraordinarily serious crimes as aircraft hijacking, kidnap-
ping, and trafficking in hard drugs; and (3) repeat offenders who commit
Federal crimes-with or without a weapon-that cause or have a potential to
cause personal injury. Exceptions to mandatory imprisonment should apply
only if the judge finds and specifies in writing one or more of the following:
that the defendant was under 18 when the offense was committed, or was men-
tally impaired, or was acting under substantial duress, or was implicated in a
crime actually committed by others and participated in the crime only in a very
843
