[28]
January 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
capacity. Financing problems for that industry are worsening. I am therefore
recommending that the 1-year investment tax credit of 12 percent be extended
an additional 2 years to specifically speed the construction of powerplants that
do not use natural gas or oil. I am also submitting proposals for selective reform
of State utility commission regulations.
To provide the critical stability for our domestic energy production in the
face of world price uncertainty, I will request legislation to authorize and re-
quire tariffs, import quotas, or price floors to protect our energy prices at levels
which will achieve energy independence.
Increasing energy supplies is not enough. We must take additional steps to
cut long-term consumption. I therefore propose to the Congress: legislation to
make thermal efficiency standards mandatory for all new buildings in the
United States; a new tax credit of up to $150 for those homeowners who install
insulation equipment; the establishment of an energy conservation program to
help low-income families purchase insulation supplies; legislation to modify
and defer automotive pollution standards for 5 years, which will enable us to
improve automobile gas mileage by 40 percent by 1980.
These proposals and actions, cumulatively, can reduce our dependence on
foreign energy supplies from 3 to 5 million barrels per day by 1985. To make the
United States invulnerable to foreign disruption, I propose standby emergency
legislation and a strategic storage program of 1 billion barrels of oil for domestic
needs and 300 million barrels for national defense purposes.
I will ask for the funds needed for energy research and development activities.
I have established a goal of 1 million barrels of synthetic fuels and shale oil
production per day by 1985 together with an incentive program to achieve it.
I have a very deep belief in America's capabilities. Within the next 10 years,
my program envisions: 200 major nuclear powerplants; 250 major new coal
mines; 150 major coal-fired powerplants; 30 major new [oil] refineries; 20
major new synthetic fuel plants; the drilling of many thousands of new oil wells;
the insulation of 18 million homes; and the manufacturing and the sale of
millions of new automobiles, trucks, and buses that use much less fuel.
I happen to believe that we can do it. In another crisis-the one in 1942—
President Franklin D. Roosevelt said this country would build 60,000 [50,000]
military aircraft. By 1943, production in that program had reached 125,000 air-
craft annually. They did it then. We can do it now.
If the Congress and the American people will work with me to attain these
targets, they will be achieved and will be surpassed.
From adversity, let us seize opportunity. Revenues of some $30 billion from
42
