June 26
[356]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
The net result is, in due time—and I hope soon-all of you can become an
active participant in the government in your respective areas, whether it is
local, whether it is Statewide, or whether it is on the Federal level.
Let me say parenthetically, I am confident, with your educational back-
ground, the experiences that you have had and will have, and your interest, all
of you will do an infinitely better job when you start running things than we
have.
So, get prepared and be active, because it is important for the country as well as
yourselves that when the time comes, you can do that job which is so important.
Let me just make an observation or two, because as you have talked to many,
you have maybe gotten one side of the coin and not entirely the other, and I am
not going to speak in a partisan way. But there is something that I think all of
you ought to understand.
You know, we have a judicial branch, an executive branch, and a legislative
branch, and they all perform a very important function.
Our forefathers so wisely decided they didn't want one person or one group
in our society dominating all of the rest, and so they established this system of
checks and balances-the executive being checked by the judiciary and by the
legislative and vice versa.
And this system has ended up giving us a tremendously effective govern-
ment, protecting our individual rights, and also giving us the flexibility to meet
our problems.
You may have read and you may have heard there is a confrontation between
the executive branch on the one hand and the legislative branch on the other,
probably best exemplified by the four vetoes that I have exercised where, on the
reconsideration by the Congress, the House of Representatives has sustained in
each case the four vetoes. Some people are alleging that we have a stalemate, that
we are not making headway. Let me convince you otherwise.
But first, let me explain what the function is of a veto. The Constitution says
that a President can exercise a veto and that if it is to be overridden and the legisla-
tion is to become law, two-thirds of the House and the Senate must override.
Now, in the case of the four vetoes where the Congress has sustained my
vetoes, we haven't been deadlocked into no action. The facts are that in two of
the cases, the fact that I vetoed what I think is bad legislation and where there
has been a sustaining of the veto, the Congress has come back after reconsidera-
tion and actually submitted-or is in the process of submitting-legislation
that is good legislation or infinitely better legislation than that which was
vetoed.
879
