January 28
[53]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
I am also concerned because what happens in Vietnam can affect the rest
of the world. It cannot be in the interests of the United States to let other
nations believe that we are prepared to look the other way when agreements
that have been painstakingly negotiated are contemptuously violated. It can-
not be in our interest to cause our friends all over the world to wonder whether
we will support them if they comply with agreements that others violate.
When the United States signed the Paris Agreement, as when we pursued the
policy of Vietnamization, we told the South Vietnamese, in effect, that we
would not defend them with our military forces, but that we would provide
them the means to defend themselves, as permitted by the Agreement. The
South Vietnamese have performed effectively in accepting this challenge. They
have demonstrated their determination and ability to defend themselves if
they are provided the necessary military materiel with which to do so. We, how-
ever, may be judged remiss in keeping our end of the bargain.
We-the Executive and Legislative Branches together-must meet our re-
sponsibilities. As I have said earlier, the amount of assistance appropriated by
the previous Congress is inadequate to the requirements of the situation.
I am, therefore, proposing:
—A supplemental appropriation of $300 million for military assistance to
to South Vietnam.
The $300 million in supplemental military assistance that I am requesting
for South Vietnam represents the difference between the $1 billion which was
authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 1975 and the $700 million which
has been appropriated. This amount does not meet all the needs of the South
Vietnamese army in its defense against North Vietnam. It does not, for example,
allow for replacement of equipment lost in combat. It is the minimum needed
to prevent serious reversals by providing the South Vietnamese with the urgent
supplies required for their self-defense against the current level of North
Vietnamese attacks.
I believe that this additional aid will help to deter the North Vietnamese
from further escalating their military pressure and provide them additional
incentive to resume the political discussions envisaged under the Paris
Agreement.
All Americans want to end the U.S. role in Vietnam. So do I. I believe, how-
ever, that we must end it in a way that will enhance the chances of world peace
and sustain the purposes for which we have sacrificed so much.
121
