February 13
[88]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
87
Remarks at the National Entertainment Conference Luncheon
Honoring Bob Hope. February 12, 1975
BOB, that wonderful ovation sounds just like when I go back up to the Con-
gress of the United States.
Well, Bob, first let me say this luncheon has presented me with some very
good news and at the same time some very bad news. The good news, of course,
is that my very good friend, Bob Hope, has been named Comedian of the Cen-
tury, and Bob, I congratulate you for it. Now, the bad news. How am I ever
going to explain this to Earl Butz? [Laughter]
Of course, Bob has received a great many honors during his lifetime and
deservedly so. In fact, Bob was telling me just last week he received a very special
award from a leading student organization, a very special award. They named
Bob the George Carlin of the Stone Age. [Laughter]
Bob, I do want to thank you for this constant dedication on your part to
humanitarian causes. Just look at what Bob is doing here in Washington. Not
only is he getting this award from this great organization but later on he's going
over to entertain our fighting forces in the Congress. [Laughter]
Well, the last thing I intend to do is to try to tell jokes in the presence of the
master. Bob has spent a lifetime, as we all know, bringing laughter and many
happy hours to at least two generations of grateful Americans. Bob is truly
the comedian of this century and any other.
Bob, on behalf of all Americans, let me say "thanks for the memory” of all
the happiness you have brought to all of us all over the world.
Thank you and congratulations.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:54 p.m. at the
Shoreham Americana Hotel to a group of college
student entertainment agents who had been meeting
in Washington.
88
Statement on Proposed Legislation To Continue Federal Funding
for the Corporation for Public Broadcasting.
February 13, 1975
THE Administration today sent a bill to the Congress that will appropriate
Federal funds for the Corporation for Public Broadcasting over a 5-year period,
starting with $70 million in fiscal 1976 and reaching $100 million by 1980. To
235
