July 10
[392]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
be considered. Also, the benefits of worthwhile social goals must be weighed
against their economic cost to the Nation as a whole.
As you know, I have ordered all departments and agencies to prepare an
inflation impact statement on each of their major proposals. I am pleased that
the House of Representatives has changed its rules to require similar analysis,
and I note that the Senate in several similar measures is doing the same thing.
I ask each of you to give this matter the highest priority.
Second, we must make every possible step to make sure that the backlog and
the delays in regulatory proceedings do not weaken the public belief in an
equitable and efficient regulatory system. If legislation is needed, you may be
certain that the Congress and the Administration will provide such laws.
Third, the public can rightfully expect that you be the leaders in suggesting
appropriate legislative changes in your authorizing statutes.
Fourth, I have asked all departments and all agencies to reexamine their
present procedures for assuring that the consumer's interests prevail.
I believe that competition in product quality and price is the best consumer
protection. By freeing entry, adding to rate flexibility, and promoting service
competition, the consumer can be given the choices that only the marketplace
can provide.
I also urge you to ensure clearer communications with consumers so they
will better understand your actions.
Our joint efforts in these areas will move us a long ways towards the efficient
and useful regulatory system that we all seek.
In addition to achieving these administrative reforms, my Administration
specifically will be seeking further legislation that would also intend to reform
our system of regulation.
It is my strong conviction that the consumer is best able to signal his wants
and needs through the marketplace, that government should not dictate what
his economic needs should be.
Therefore, I have proposed and will continue to support legislation to relax
or eliminate the Federal controls over areas where I believe the marketplace
can do a better job. I believe the Government should intrude in the free market
only when well-defined social objectives can be obtained by such intervention
or when inherent monopoly structures prevent a free, competitive market
system from operating. Government should foster rather than frustrate com-
petition. It should seek to ensure maximum freedom for private enterprise.
Agencies engaged in regulatory activities can expect that the Antitrust Divi-
sion of the Department of Justice will continue to argue for competition and
951
