[45]
January 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
MR. BROKAW. Mr. President, I know that you want to convince the people
this plan is the correct one, and yet, today on the White House lawn, a number
of Governors from the Northeast were downright angry, threatening legal
action. There are people on Capitol Hill-on the Democratic side, especially—
in the Congress, who think that your idea of a good marriage is roughly the same
as Henry VIII's. I wonder if you have not overplayed your hand by taking the
action that you did today. A lot of people think it was an arrogant action in an
attempt to force Congress to go along with your idea about how to solve the
energy package.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, Tom, I think you have to look at it this way—and I
told the Governors who were down at the West Wing this afternoon—that in
the last 3 years, we have heard from various Administration officials, Members
of Congress, my predecessor as President, that we had a serious energy crisis, and
of course, that was accentuated by the oil embargo that was imposed in October
of 1973. And despite the recognized fact that we do have a problem, a short-range
problem and a long-range problem, nothing has really been done to achieve
conservation on the one hand or new supplies on the other.
There has been a lot of talk—and I am not critical of anybody-but it had not
materialized into any action, either in the Congress or otherwise. It seemed to
me the time for conversation had ended and that we had to act. I said a week
or two ago in my State of the Union Message that I was only taking this action
as a way to stimulate Congressional action.
If I had backed off, there would have been two, I think, adverse impacts.
Number one, I think the Congress would have delayed longer in acting. Num-
ber two, I think it would have been a sign of weakness around the world that
we could not make up our mind, that we could not act decisively, we could not
find a remedy. So, even though I have been charged with being a little hard-
headed on this, in my judgment, the time for action had come. And I think it
will bring action, the right kind of action.
MR. CHANCELLOR. Mr. President, your problem involves taking some money
from the taxpayers and giving back money to the taxpayers, and it is kind of
tricky.
As I understand it, you are going to take money from the taxpayers in terms
of what they have to pay for energy and some food and plastics and metals and
all the things that are related to that. You are going to ask the Congress to give
some of that money back through tax cuts. What happens if the Congress doesn't
move?
I
92
