May 10
[251]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
251
Remarks at a Reception for Chiefs of Delegation to
the General Assembly of the Organization of American States.
May 10, 1975
Mr. President of the General Assembly, Excellencies, distinguished delegates,
ladies and gentlemen:
This is my very first opportunity as President to welcome the Chiefs of Dele-
gation to the General Assembly of the Organization of American States. I am
very delighted to be here, and it is a great privilege and pleasure to see all of you
here this evening.
It has been my good fortune to have met many of you when I was in the
Congress and to meet many of you when I was Vice President. I have had an
opportunity to see many of you as President, and it is a great pleasure to have
you in the White House on this occasion.
Your presence here tonight is testimony to the wisdom of the Western Hemi-
sphere's pioneering effort to create a free association of sovereign nations about a
century ago. The durability of our inter-American system rests on its ability to
adapt to changing hemispheric and world conditions and to respond to the new
problems and the needs which arise.
I just noticed that some of my good friends and old colleagues in the House of
Representatives and the Senate are here, and I welcome them as well.
Let me add at this point—it is a comment by my good friend and old col-
league, Bill Mailliard,¹ and he has said this, and I fully concur: The bedrock
strength of this Organization comes from the wealth of wisdom that the member
states and their representatives bring to the solution of our common problems.
Today, this General Assembly is carrying on the tradition of adaptability to
change, as we see it, in considering recommendations for reform. Just as the inter-
American system was the pathfinder in the field of international organizations,
it could likewise become a pioneer in reforming the traditional way in which
international organizations do business. The basic concept which holds this
Organization together is that strength and progress come from cooperation rather
than from conflict.
In this country, we are extremely proud of our achievements under a demo-
cratic form of government and a productive economic system, We recognize
¹ William S. Mailliard, Permanent Representative of the United States of America to the Organization of
American States.
661
