[214]
April 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
efforts to revive the economy would suffer a serious blow. States, cities, counties
and small communities would have to either cut back essential services causing
increased public and related private unemployment or tax more or borrow
more—thus defeating the objectives of our national efforts to reduce the total
tax load and revive the economy.
Enactment of Federal revenue sharing was a wise decision in 1972. Its con-
tinuation is imperative now. Before deciding to recommend extension of this
program, I directed that an exhaustive study be made of the present program to
identify its strengths and weaknesses. This assessment has been carried out and
has taken into account the views of the Congress, State and local government
officials, interested citizen bodies and private study groups analyzing govern-
ment policy. I will also consider any significant findings which may yet emerge
from studies presently underway.
Based on our review of this work, I am now proposing to the Congress legisla-
tion which will maintain the basic features of the existing revenue sharing pro-
gram while offering several improvements.
The principal elements of the renewal legislation I am proposing are:
-The basic revenue sharing formula is retained. Experience to date suggests
the essential fairness of the present formula and I recommend its retention.
-Funds will be authorized for five and three-quarters years. The effect of this
provision is to conform the time period to the new Federal fiscal year.
-The current method of funding with annual increases of $150 million will
be retained to compensate, in part, for the impact of inflation. Over the five and
three-quarters years, this level will produce a total distribution of Federal reve-
nues of $39.85 billion. By the final year, the revenues shared will have increased
by $937 million over the current level of payments.
-Recognizing the need to raise the existing per capita constraint on the basic
formula, my proposal would permit those hard-pressed jurisdictions now con-
strained by the per capita limitation to receive more money. The impact of this
change on other communities would be minimized by phasing the change in
five steps and by the increase of $150 million annually.
-To strengthen the civil rights provisions of the existing statute the proposed
legislation would authorize the Secretary of the Treasury to invoke several
remedies to enforce the nondiscrimination provisions of the act. This would be
accomplished by stating explicitly that the Secretary has authority to withhold
all or a portion of entitlement funds due a State or unit of local government, to
terminate one or more payments of entitlement funds, and to require repayment
of entitlement funds previously expended in a program or activity found to have
582
