January 29
[54]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
which I feel very strongly on, that we have got an overall plan in both cases,
and I think it is the responsibility for Congress to act.
Q. Mr. President, could some of the concerns that we face today possibly be
avoided if the respective leaders of Congress were brought into the planning
sessions before you publicly made available a program?
THE PRESIDENT. I know some feel that way, but I think you have to bear
in mind a couple of things. We did most of the decisionmaking while Con-
gress was in recess, both when they adjourned and before they came back. And
I felt it was of maximum importance to have something up on the desk of
Congress as soon as they reconvened. As you know, my State of the Union
encompassed the program the day after they returned.
There was some briefing, I must say, if not full participation, prior to the
actual submission of the plan to the Congress. I had a meeting of about an
hour with the Speaker where he told me what the Democratic plan was and
I told him what our plan was.
I did meet with Al Ullman. I did meet with Russell Long.¹ Some of the
people on the White House staff and on the executive side did contact various
Members of Congress on both sides of the aisle.
Q. Mr. President, can you envision any circumstance under which you
might agree to relent on the oil import fees and give the Congress additional
time?
THE PRESIDENT. I think the acts I have taken on the first of February I must
stay with. I think this is the executive action that has gotten the solution to
the energy problem off dead center. We had nothing but studies and talk.
Was it 1970 or 1971 that the Senate authorized a comprehensive study of the
energy problem and solutions? I am told there has never been any report—
or the time has come to stop studying it, and the time has come to act on it.
The only way I know—and I am being very frank with you—I deliberately
did it because this is the one way that we have crystallized some potential
action.
Q. Mr. President, you have said how strongly you feel on the tax question.
Looking at the tax side, is there any more room for compromise on that side?
This is what we were discussing just before you came into the room, to com-
promise with those who feel the economy needs a greater stimulus because
perhaps the recession threat may be stronger than is felt on this side.
Representative Al Ullman, chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, and Senator Russell B.
Long, chairman of the Senate Finance Committee.
125
