[72]
February 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
in favor of one that would provide more help to low- and middle-income peo-
ple. At the same time, the committee seems inclined to perhaps continue some
of its tax cuts indefinitely, instead of ending them after 1 year as you have pro-
posed. Could you live with these changes?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, of course, the House Committee on Ways and Means
has only taken tentative action. Their procedure is to make tentative decisions
and then go back in the final analysis and either agree with or change what
they have made as they have gone along. This is only the first of four major
steps, maybe five. The House has to approve it, the Senate Committee on Fi-
nance has to act, the Senate, and then in conference. So, I think it is premature
for me to make any categorical judgment as to whether I would accept what
the tentative agreements are in House Committee on Ways and Means. I think
I had better wait and pass judgment on what looks like might be the final
version.
ENVIRONMENTAL GOALS
[15.] Q. Mr. President, John Pruitt of WSB Television. You have called
for relaxing of pollution controls because of the energy crisis, and some have
accused you of abandoning the environmental movement.
I would like to know what you think is going to happen to the environmental
movement and the strides that have been made in the past few years as a result
of your proposals?
THE PRESIDENT. I do not think that I have recommended any major shift
away from our environmental goals. Let me take one that I am very familiar
with.
Under existing law, within the next 2 years the automobile manufacturers
would have to go to a substantially higher emission standard. And the auto-
mobile manufacturers are testifying right now that if they are forced to go
to that very, very high standard, there will be an added cost to every automobile
that is produced and there will be no improvement and probably a decrease in
the efficiency of automobiles, which means that cars sold in the next 3 or 4 years
will guzzle more gasoline, not less gasoline.
With the effort that I think is reasonable, we can increase automobile efficiency
by 40 percent and still achieve an increase in environmental emission standards.
And here is what I have recommended: that the Congress change the law to
improve the environmental emission standards from the present law to the
California standards, and in return for that change of the law, the automotive
manufacturers have agreed with me in writing to increase automotive efficiency
192
