May 9
[250]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
aggression, and where you have a treaty obligation,
to do so.
If the President and Congress can speak in one
voice on basic issues of foreign policy and in clear
and unmistakable terms, then friends and allies will
know where they stand and others will not be able
to pretend to misunderstand when crossing the line
from insurgency into open aggression. Then the
world will see less adventurism.
When confusion reigns, it is more often because
men's minds are confused rather than that the
situation is confused. I found considerable clarity of
exposition on future policies, both here in our dis-
cussions this morning and in most of my discussions
on Capitol Hill.
There was no congruence, complete congruence of
attitudes and policies, but I believe there is or
should be enough common ground on major issues.
If this common ground can form the foundation
of a coherent, consistent policy between now and
the next Presidential elections, there would be great
relief around the world.
Like the rest of the world, we in Asia have to
get our people reconciled to slower rates of growth
now that the cost of energy has nearly quintupled.
But growth, however slow compared to what it used
to be, would be of immense help in keeping the
world peaceful and stable. Only then will great
matters be accorded the priorities they deserve, and
men's minds will be less confused.
One such confusion is that since Vietnam and
Cambodia were not America's to lose in the first
place, then nothing has been lost. It is this apologetic
explaining away of a grave setback that worries
many of America's friends. Since we do not
belong to you, then you have lost nothing anyway,
if we are lost.
I am happy to tell you, Mr. President, that my
immediate neighbors and I have not been lost. In-
deed, we have every intention to coordinate our
actions and policies to insure that we will never
be lost. It is a euphemism for a takeover, often by
force. It will help if Americans, particularly those
in the mass media, do not find this strange.
Mr. President, I have expounded this last week in
Jamaica, as a consequence of which my friend, the
British Foreign Secretary, Jim Callaghan, said it
made him melancholy. And I went back and
quoted a Chinese metaphor saying-4,000 years of
varigated living, sometimes in prosperous, often in
less prosperous circumstances, and the same lan-
guage, polished and repolished over some 3,000-
plus years, one can usually find something apt.
It runs thus: Saiwung Chima-Saiwung is a
name of a man who lived in the Sung Dynasty-he
had many horses. One day he lost one. Who knows
what tragedy he felt? The great chairman may not.
I don't know whether this is ideologically purist
in its approach, but it has a philosophical explana-
tion for fortune and misfortune.
The horse was loss, great loss. The horse came
back and brought another horse-profit.
His son rode the horse and was thrown off and
broke his leg. Great pity. War came and the young
men were conscripted, but his son, having broke his
leg, missed the conscription. Unlike his many other
contemporaries, he survived-but with a broken leg,
mended.
It is as much to console my friend Jim Callaghan
as it is to give me that degree of solace and sometimes
objectivity. Who knows, 2 years ago it was a dif-
ferent world. Two years from hence could be better,
could be worse, but I do not believe in Marxist-
Leninist predetermination.
I have been able to spend a delightful evening
beside your wife, Mr. President. I read of you, and
it was as I found it-that you were open, direct,
easy to get along with, but with decided views.
I did not know, however, that you had a
gracious wife who made me feel completely at
home, and I enjoyed my evening.
So, ladies and gentlemen, if you would join me
in wishing the President and Mrs. Ford good health,
good fortune, long life.
250
Remarks on Greeting Participants in the Annual Conference
of the National Association for Foreign Students Affairs.
May 9, 1975
THANK YOU very much for coming. I am delighted to welcome all of you
in the Rose Garden at the White House, and I think it's most appropriate that
we get together on this International Students Day, which is designated by the
good mayor of the city of Washington, D.C.
659
