April 25
[217]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
to do your part to get behind the program and to have your voices heard in the
Congress of the United States.
And if I might add a postscript in this area: As long ago as 12 months before
this date, I was warning mayors, county officials, State officials that there would
be an effort made-I don't challenge their motives-but there would be an
effort made to not extend general revenue sharing, or if it was extended, to so
restrict it and so tie it down, so limit it that the whole character of the program
would be changed.
Now we have, in my judgment, a hard battle ahead of us. But if you join
with me and we get the mayors and the county officials to join with us, we can
extend this program along the lines that I'm recommending. It's not going to
be easy. You will have some people who will want to change its character, reduce
its money, put all kinds of limitations and strings on it. We cannot afford to
have that happen.
This program has justified itself. We had a hard time getting it in the first
instance, and we will probably have a difficult time in the months ahead for
its extension. But on its merit, it can be justified. And I'm confident that the
American people will support your efforts and mine as we join with others.
I think I understand the importance of State government and some of the
problems you face. And I can assure you that I and my Administration will
do everything we can to be helpful. It's a mutual responsibility we have to our
respective constituents, and if we work together, we can get the job done.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:08 p.m. in the East Room at the White House.
217
Address at the Yale University Law School Sesquicentennial
Convocation Dinner. April 25, 1975
Thank you very much, President Brewster, Dean Goldstein, Governor Grasso,
Justices Stewart and White, the Secretary of HUD, Carla Hills, the Mem-
bers of the House of Representatives with whom I served, and others who
are now Members but with whom I did not have that privilege and pleasure,
good mayor, fellow alumni, students, and guests of Yale Law School:
Obviously, it's a very great privilege and pleasure to be here at the Yale
Law School Sesquicentennial Convocation. And I defy anyone to say that and
chew gum at the same time. [Laughter]
587
