January 29
[54]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
be something like $250, but since then we have been told it would be something
like perhaps as much as $345. In view of that greater impact, do you think that
there should be tax concessions in the program?
THE PRESIDENT. I read that headline, and I was somewhat irritated, to put it
mildly. The first question I asked when I got to the office was, "What hap-
pened?" So, let Eric explain.
ERIC ZAUSNER [Administrator, Federal Energy Administration]. I think the
answer is it will not be $345. Our best estimate still is in the range of $250 to
$275. That $345 number was merely our attempt to see what we felt the absolute
maximum could be with all the ripple effects and a number of other things that
people thought potentially could happen, given our best assessment of what will
happen.
The way the economy is now, we feel that is an unrealistic number, and $250
to $275 is still our best estimate of where this will work its way out.
ALAN GREENSPAN [Chairman, Council of Economic Advisers]. The $345, as
I recall, is equivalent to 2.5-percent increase in CPI and the $275 is the 2 percent,
is that correct?
Also, it is on a family income of, as I recall, $15,000, which is the average, but
not the median, and there is a very significant difference. When you look at these
absolute numbers, it would be a very significantly different and lower number
in lower income groups, because they use and spend less on energy.
Q. I was wondering whether in your conversations with other chiefs of state
whether they have made any comment on our economic and, even, energy pro-
grams, and what the reaction from abroad has been.
THE PRESIDENT. When Helmut Schmidt was here, he had just announced his
proposed economic program, and he has strongly endorsed it, spoke out for it,
and he hoped that the European countries, West Germany, and ourselves could
work together.
I got a communication through official channels—and I am not sure it was not
in the West German press-that he was very favorably impressed and was very
happy that we had taken much the same line that he had taken.
We got an equally favorable comment from the French Government, Giscard.
When we were in Martinique, we did talk about economic plans and action that
would be similar rather than different.
I might say I have heard indirectly that Mr. Wilson feels the same way,
although we have not heard or at least I have not seen anything.
2 Prime Minister Harold Wilson of the United Kingdom.
127
