[341]
June 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
minor way. I have asked the Attorney General to assist the Congress in drafting
this modification to the sentencing provisions of S. 1. Since most violent crime
is in the jurisdiction of State and local criminal courts, I call upon the States
to establish similar mandatory sentencing systems. Too many persons found
guilty of serious, violent crimes never spend a day in prison after conviction.
I would emphasize that the aim of this program of mandatory imprisonment
is not vindictive punishment of the criminal, but protection of the innocent
victim by separating the violent criminal from the community. These victims—
most of whom are old or poor or disadvantaged—have a valid claim on the rest
of society for the protection and the personal safety that they cannot provide
for themselves.
Reasonable mandatory minimum sentences can restore the sense of certainty
of imprisonment upon which the deterrent impact of criminal law is based.
Mandatory sentences need not be long sentences; the range of indeterminacy
need not be great. In fact, wide disparities in sentences for essentially equivalent
offenses give a look of unfairness to the law. To help eliminate that unfairness,
Federal appeals courts should be given some authority to review sentences
given by Federal trial court judges—to increase or reduce them so that the pun-
ishments will be more nearly uniform throughout the Federal system. I am
also asking the Attorney General to review this problem to ensure that the
Federal sentencing structure, which is now based on the indeterminate sen-
tence, is both fair and appropriate. Among other things, it may be time to give
serious study to the concept of so-called “flat time sentencing” in the Federal
law.
In addition to reform of the criminal law, we must improve the manner in
which our criminal justice system operates. Effective deterrence to law-breaking
is currently lacking, in part because our criminal justice system simply does not
operate effectively.
A logical place to begin discussion of such improvement is the prosecutor's
office, for it is there that important decisions are made as to which offenders
should be prosecuted, what cases should be brought to trial, when plea bargains
should be struck and how scarce judicial resources should be allocated. Many
prosecutors' offices currently lack the manpower or management devices to
make those decisions correctly. Prosecutors often lack information on a de-
fendant's criminal history and thus cannot identify habitual criminals who
should be tried by experienced prosecutors and, if convicted, sent to prison. In
too many cases, they lack efficient systems to monitor the status of the numerous
cases they handle. If improved management techniques could be made available
844
