January 16
[30]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
supplies of energy at reasonable prices. ERDA will work with private industry,
colleges and universities, and others to develop and put into effective use tech-
nology that will conserve energy and increase the supply of energy from all
sources, including fossil, nuclear fission and fusion, solar, and geothermal.
ERDA consolidates major research and development functions previously han-
dled by the AEC, Department of the Interior, National Science Foundation,
and Environmental Protection Agency. ERDA also will continue the basic
research nuclear materials production and weapons programs of the AEC.
With the addition of these two agencies, we will have organized the major
elements of the Federal Government that are needed to lead the national energy
effort. They will play a critical role in carrying out the energy policy which I
announced today. In the years ahead, I expect to have as much pride in their
development and success as I have in their creation.
30
Message to the Congress Reporting on International Whaling
Operations and Conservation Programs. January 16, 1975
To the Congress of the United States:
The Pelly Amendment to the Fishermen's Protective Act of 1967, 22 U.S.C.
ยง 1978 (1971), states that when the Secretary of Commerce determines that the
citizens of a foreign country conduct fishing operations which diminish the
effectiveness of a conservation program of an international fishery convention
to which the United States is a party, he shall so certify to the President. The
President may then direct the Secretary of the Treasury to prohibit the importa-
tion of fish products of the offending country. Within sixty days of certification,
the President is required to notify the Congress of any action taken by him
pursuant to such certification. If the President takes no action, or if he imposes
an import prohibition which does not cover all fish products of the offending
country, he must inform the Congress of his reasons.
The Secretary of Commerce has certified to me that the minke whale catches
of the USSR and Japan during the 1973-1974 season exceeded the International
Whaling Commission (IWC) quotas for that season. These actions diminished
the effectiveness of the conservation program of the Commission.
Quotas on the number of whales to be taken each year are set at the annual
meeting of the IWC. These quotas together with certain other limitations con-
47
