March 6
[125]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
I expressed those views to the Vice President, but I went no further, and I do
not think it would have been appropriate for me to go any further.
Q. To just follow that question up, do you think that it is going to be harder
for you to get your programs through the Congress with this prospective change
in the filibuster rule?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think it will be any more difficult to get the programs
through. It might be more difficult in other ways, but I do not think it will be
more difficult to get the programs through.
FORMER PRESIDENT NIXON
[7.] Q. Mr. President, some people who have visited former President Nixon
in recent months have quoted him as saying that he would like to, after his ill-
ness is over, become a major figure in the Republican Party again. Do you foresee
any time in the future when it would be beneficial for the Republican Party to
have him reemerge as a leader?
The President. I think any comment that I make in that regard is inappro-
priate at the present time. Mr. Nixon is still recovering from a very serious ill-
ness. And for me to speculate down the road, I think, is unwise at this point.
TAX REDUCTIONS
[8.] Q. Mr. President, Secretary Simon said the other day that he thought
the jobless rate, unemployment rate, could rise to as much as 9 percent before
things turned around. Now, in view of this, would you be willing to go for a
larger tax reduction? Would you be willing to raise it, say, $10 billion or some
other figure?
THE PRESIDENT. In the first place, I have doubts that it will go to 9 percent.
It might. But without commenting on whether it will or won't, if there is a
need for a greater stimulant, I would certainly go for a greater tax reduction than
for increased spending. I think that the tax reduction route is a lot more
desirable than just increasing spending on some of these categorical programs
or other programs that really do not help the individual as much as a tax reduc-
tion which would put money back in his pocket.
I believe that the program we have, as it appears to be moving through the
Congress, is, at this stage of the game, moving in the right direction. The big
problem is not the size of the tax reduction, but the slowness with which the
Congress is acting on it and the failure of the Congress thus far to limit the tax
reduction to something that can be enacted into law quickly.
327
