February 3
[64]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
and the disabled with a more uniform and equitable national system. This
broad reform has provided higher benefits for these disadvantaged groups.
In addition, Federal assumption of responsibility for these programs has pro-
vided significant fiscal relief to State and local governments. This budget pro-
vides for substantial increases in administrative personnel necessary to improve
services to beneficiaries both of this program, and of social security.
Outlays for the food stamp program have increased from $248 million in
1969 to an estimated $3.6 billion in 1976. I have undertaken reforms to simplify
the administration of this program and reduce costs, while providing for more
equitable treatment of beneficiaries.
Over the years, the income security of our labor force has been enhanced by
liberalization of benefits and coverage under our unemployment insurance
system, while increased employment opportunities have been created in areas
of high unemployment. Programs derived from the special unemployment as-
sistance measures I proposed last October have been enacted into law as the
Emergency Jobs and Unemployment Assistance Act and the Emergency Un-
employment Compensation Act. With these new acts, total unemployment
assistance, including employment programs, will expand 207%, from $6.1
billion in 1974 to $18.8 billion in 1976.
Our present welfare system is inefficient and inequitable. It is wasteful not
only of tax dollars but, more importantly, of human potential. Left unchanged,
over the long run the situation will almost surely continue to deteriorate. I
urge the Congress to work with my Administration to develop reforms that
make the system simple, fair, and compassionate. This approach need not cost
more, but rather can use our welfare dollars more effectively.
America needs to improve the way it pays for medical care. We should begin
plans for a comprehensive national health insurance system. However, in view
of the economic developments and the measures I have proposed to combat
recession and inflation, I cannot now propose costly new programs. Once our
current economic problems are behind us, the development of an adequate
national medical insurance system should have high national priority. I urge
the Congress to work with my Administration in order to devise a system
that we will be able to afford.
The major existing Federal programs for financing medical care, Medicare
and Medicaid, are now 10 years old. Medicare outlays of $15 billion in 1976 will
help to meet the medical costs of an estimated 13.3 million aged and disabled
Americans, 29% more people than were aided in 1971. Medicaid outlays of $7.2
billion will help to pay medical care for 26 million low-income Americans in
159
