June 26
[358]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Foreign investors and customers would not have access to sensitive classified
technology. Proposals from American enrichers to share technology would be
evaluated separately, and would be subject to careful Government review and
approval.
Finally, the plants proposed will be designed and built to produce low enriched
fuel which is suitable only for commercial power reactors-not for nuclear
explosives.
In the remote event that a proposed private venture did not succeed, this legis-
lation would enable the Government to take actions necessary to assure that
plants will be brought on line in time to supply domestic and foreign customers
when uranium enrichment services are needed.
I have instructed the Energy Research and Development Administration to
implement backup contingency measures, including continuation of conceptual
design activities, research and development, and technology assistance to the
private sector on a cost-recovery basis.
ERDA would also be able to purchase from a private firm design work on
components that could be used in a Government plant in the unlikely event that
a venture fails.
Finally I pledge to all customers—domestic and foreign—who place orders
with our private suppliers that the United States Government will guarantee that
these orders are filled as needed. Those who are first in line with our private
sources will be first in line to receive supplies under this assurance. All con-
tracted obligations will be honored.
I also pledge that cooperative agreements made with private firms under the
proposed new authority will fully reflect the public interest. In fact, all contracts
will be placed before the Congress in advance of their effectiveness. The Con-
gress will have full and complete review of each one.
In sum, the program I am proposing will take maximum advantage of the
strength and resourcefulness of industry and Government.
It will reinforce the world leadership we now enjoy in uranium enrichment
technology. It will help insure the continued availability of reliable energy for
America. It will move America one big step nearer energy independence.
Although the development of a competitive nuclear fuel industry is an impor-
tant part of our overall energy strategy, we must continue our efforts to conserve
the more traditional energy resources on which we have relied for generations.
And we must accelerate our exploration of new sources of energy for the future—
including solar power, the harnessing of nuclear fusion and development of
nuclear breeder reactors which are safe, environmentally sound and reliable.
887
