[64]
February 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
I urge the Congress to accept this recommendation. I especially urge the
private sector-labor and management alike—to follow this example and mini-
mize price and wage increases.
I have proposed a similar temporary limit on the automatic increases in bene-
fit programs linked to changes in consumer prices. These programs include
Social Security, Railroad Retirement, Federal employee retirement and dis-
ability systems, military retired pay, Supplemental Security Income, and the
food stamp and child nutrition programs. My proposal is made in the context
of the very large increases that have occurred in these programs in recent years—
increases well in excess of the rate of inflation. For example, between 1970 and
1975, average payments per Social Security beneficiary have increased 22% in
constant prices—that is, after adjusting for the 38% rise in consumer prices.
Both benefit increases and growth in the number of beneficiaries have contrib-
uted to an increase in outlays for these programs from $39 billion in 1970 to an
estimated $91 billion in 1975.
With thousands of workers being laid off while considerable inflationary
momentum persists, I believe that modest restraint on Federal pay raises and
on the growth of Federal benefit programs is an equitable way to keep the
budget from perpetuating inflation.
BUDGET TRENDS AND PRIORITIES
The Federal budget both reflects our national priorities and helps to move
the Nation toward their realization. Recent years have seen a significant shift in
the composition of the Federal budget. The proportion of the budget devoted
to defense has declined substantially since 1964, with a corresponding increase
in the nondefense proportion of the budget. This shift has been particularly
rapid since 1969, due in part to the end of American combat involvement in
Vietnam.
Defense outlays remained virtually level in current dollar terms from 1969
to 1974, absorbing substantial cost increases-including the pay raises necessary
to establish equitable wage levels for our servicemen and women and to make
possible the transition to an all-volunteer armed force. Defense programs have
undergone large reductions in real terms―reductions of about 40% since 1969
in manpower and materiel. In consequence, defense outlays have been a de-
creasing share of our gross national product, falling from 8.9% in 1969 to
5.9% in 1976.
At the same time, Federal nondefense spending has increased substantially
152
