[396]
July 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
American consumer, that we are alert to the danger of too big a sale or too much
shipment overseas, because the American consumer has a stake in this problem
as well.
So, we have to find a careful line to tread, of selling all we can, but protecting
the rights of the American consumer and utilizing the productivity of the
American farmer to help our balance of payments, to improve our humanitarian
efforts overseas, and to indirectly help us in our relations with other countries.
Q. But a sale of any substantial size would mean some increase in the loaf
of bread here, wouldn't it?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think I am in a position—or anyone else is in a posi-
tion—to define what a substantial sale is. A big sale with big wheat and feed
grain and corn production would have a minimal effect on consumer prices
in the United States. I can only assure you and the American people that we
are watching all aspects of this problem and we will keep alert to any pitfalls
or dangers that might result.
EQUAL RIGHTS FOR WOMEN
[14.] Q. Mr. President, the equal rights amendment has had an extraor-
dinarily difficult time getting passed here in Illinois. At one time, your wife
made several calls here. In the next session of the legislature, would you get on
the phone and call some local Republicans, asking, urging them to pass the
ERA?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think Betty does a fine job in this effort. I, of course,
voted for the equal rights amendment when I was in the Congress. My record
is clear. She is an effective spokesman, and I see no decrease in her enthusiasm
for this. So, come next year, I suspect she can speak for both of us.
Q. A followup. What about your own personal effort? And just how im-
portant is the issue of sex discrimination going to be in terms of your campaign?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I have appointed to the executive branch of the Gov-
ernment a number of outstanding women to serve in positions of great
responsibility.
We have a member of my Cabinet, Mrs. Carla Hills, who is Secretary of
HUD. The head of the National Labor Relations Board [Betty Southard
Murphy] is a woman and an outstanding person in that area of great respon-
sibility.
We will continue to recognize women of talent and experience, because they
have and will contribute significantly in the executive branch of the Govern-
974
