April 25
[214]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
This program has been a resounding success. Since its enactment, General
Revenue Sharing has provided nearly $19 billion to 50 States and some 39,000
local governments-money which these governments could use as they saw fit
to meet their priority needs.
These Federal revenue sharing dollars have meant new crime fighting equip-
ment and more police on the street, help for essential mass transportation, a
better environment, improved fire protection and many other useful public
activities. If some communities have not used their revenue sharing funds wisely,
they are a miniscule fraction of governments which have used this money well.
The current revenue sharing act has also enabled individuals and citizen
groups to play their part in determining the use of these Federal funds in their
communities by placing the decision on the use of these funds at the local rather
than the Federal level. This citizen participation strengthens our democracy in
the best possible way. It is my intention to strengthen our efforts to encourage
the widest possible citizen participation.
THE NEED GOES ON
General Revenue Sharing has also been the keystone of additional efforts to
reform Federal aid. The new block grant programs, more decentralized grant
management, joint funding projects and grant integration, improved program
information and executive reorganization have all been included in a large-scale
effort to make better sense of and to get greater results from the billions granted
to State and local governments.
The General Revenue Sharing program enacted in 1972 turned a corner. It
caught a serious problem in time and helped us get back on the road to a sounder
Federalism, of shared rights and responsibilities.
Many State and local governments are facing deficits with the prospect of
having to raise additional taxes or cut services. Our States and localities are
facing these adverse developments at a time when their fiscal responsibilities
have mounted due to the impact of inflation on their expenditures and the tax
burdens placed on citizens. Further, the present high unemployment is taking
its toll in terms of lower tax receipts and higher costs on States and communities.
This combination of financial pressures is likely to continue to bear down on
these governments for the foreseeable future.
Many units of governments, particularly in distressed urban areas, count on
these funds for their budget planning. If the flow of shared revenues were to be
turned off or scaled down, the results would be immediate and painful. Our
581
