[125]
March 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
will have shown that if negotiations are resisted, the United States will weary,
abandon its friends, and force will prevail.
The third issue is the reliability of the United States. If we cease to help our
friends in Indochina, we will have violated their trust that we would help them
with arms, with food, and with supplies so long as they remain determined to
fight for their own freedom. We will have been false to ourselves, to our word,
and to our friends. No one should think for a moment that we can walk away
from that without a deep sense of shame.
This is not a question of involvement or reinvolvement in Indochina. We have
ended our involvement. All American forces have come home. They will not go
back.
Time is short. There are two things the United States can do to affect the
outcome. For my part, I will continue to seek a negotiated settlement. I ask the
Congress to do its part by providing the assistance required to make such a
settlement possible.
Time is running out.
Mr. Cormier [Frank Cormier, Associated Press].
QUESTIONS
CAMBODIA
[2.] Q. Mr. President, you wound up saying, “Time is running out" in
Cambodia. Can you give us any assurance that even if the aid is voted it will get
there in time? Is it stockpiled and ready to roll, or what is the situation?
THE PRESIDENT. If we don't give the aid, there is no hope. If we do get the
necessary legislation from the Congress and it comes quickly-I would say
within the next 10 days or 2 weeks—it will be possible to get the necessary aid
to Cambodia, both economic assistance, humanitarian assistance, and military
assistance. I believe there is a hope that we can help our friends to continue long
enough to get into the wet season, then there will be an opportunity for the kind
of negotiation which I think offers the best hope for a peace in Cambodia.
Mr. Growald [Richard Growald, United Press International].
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
[3.] Q. Mr. President, would you tell us what Director Colby has told
you of any CIA connection with the assassination of foreign leaders?
THE PRESIDENT. I am not in a position to give you any factual account. I have
had a full report from Mr. Colby on the operations that have been alluded to in
322
