April 16
[189]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
1949. For a period of better than 25 years in the Congress, as a Member of the
House, and part of that time as a leadership role in the minority party, it has
been my conviction.
As long as I am President of the United States, I will seek to carry on
that very important responsibility of our country. I believe to be successful
in this effort, this endeavor, tl: Congress and the President must work
together.
It is my belief that if we are to be successful in the achievement of success
in the area of foreign policy, the American people, to the degree that they
can, must be united.
I also believe that our foreign policy, if you look at the record—at least
during the period that I was honored to be a part of our Government in the
Congress or in the executive branch-that our foreign policy has been a
successful one.
Of course, there have been some instances where we did not achieve all
that we sought, in some cases because the circumstances were well beyond our
control. In a few instances where we have not been as successful as we would
have liked, I think we self-inflicted some problems that helped to bring that
unfortunate result.
I also believe to maintain peace and to ensure it, certainly in the future, the
United States must remain strong militarily. We must have a broad, strong,
well-led military establishment—and I include in that an intelligence system
that can be extremely helpful to me and to Presidents in the future.
I believe also that we must work with friend and foe alike. We have many,
many friends throughout the world. We have some potential adversaries. And
we have some that are true adversaries. But if we are to achieve what we all
want, we have to work with all.
It is my strong belief that we can achieve unity at home. I see no reason why
the Congress and the President cannot work together. That doesn't mean that
all 535 Members of the House and Senate will agree with me. But I can assure
you that what I have said on more than one occasion, I believe and I will try
to implement, that I will work with the Congress, and I know many, if not
all, in the Congress will try to work with me.
If we do get this unity at home and if we do develop a closer relationship
between the President and the Congress, I think we can continue a successful
foreign policy in building a better world and achieving, on a more permanent
basis, peace for all.
495
