April 18
[196]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
ments, which are aimed at measuring what Government rules and regulations
actually cost the consumer, cost the economy. These statements were the first
attempt to see how Government actions contribute to inflation. What we are
finding out is not just the administrative costs of these actions but also the cost
to consumers.
The responsibility of Government in contributing to inflation is of great con-
cern to me and to all of my associates. This prompted our call for a reduction
of some 40,000 Federal employees by June 30 of this year and a 10-percent
cutback in White House personnel. And we are going to make both of them. I
can assure you that belt-tightening for this Administration begins at home.
Now, the downturn in the rate of inflation is encouraging. When I took office,
inflation was climbing unbelievably—a double-digit situation at an annual rate
of 12.2 percent. Today, that rate has slowed down to 7.4 percent. It is still too
high, and of course, we will maintain our best efforts, I can assure you, to bring
it down even further.
I should say, parenthetically, I am determined to veto legislation that is too
expensive in terms of the budget deficit and legislation that will cost business
and consumers too much. That is a pledge and a promise to you and to the
American people.
Now, as we look back over history, we find that regulations sprang up in
response to certain economic conditions and have been perpetuated by too little
attention to their effectiveness. An outdated view of business as the oppressor
which must be controlled by government has also contributed to the failure to
tackle reform. The relationship between government and business is a relation-
ship between government and the consumer, and this must be, as I see it, the
spirit behind reevaluation and reform.
The producers and the customers in our system are not enemies. I repeat, the
producers and customers in our system are not enemies, but actually partners.
Cooperation is needed to help promote reform of the regulatory system. Pro-
ducers who strive to achieve a reputation by fair dealing are also aware that
good will with the public is the most valuable asset a company can have. Business
and consumers must unite for the common goal to help unsnarl these restric-
tions and regulations that encumber our economy.
One unfortunate byproduct of regulation is the stifling of competition. Re-
duced competition hurts the consumer—or customer—and, ultimately, the entire
free enterprise system.
Competition-I think it is good in politics, I think it is good in athletics, and
521
