February 25
[107]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
ment, procurement—all of that is funded by the defense budget that has been
submitted to the Congress.
We are trying to attract the finest young men, and we are seeking to retain
young men and women in the military so that they can do that job for us of
maintaining the peace throughout the world.
It seems to me that the least we can do is to make sure that enough money is
available so that they have our backing as they perform a great responsibility for
you and for me and for millions of others.
I close by simply saying, I thank you. Millions of other Americans will thank
you. Those who are in civilian clothes, those in the military who are at far-off
outposts, or sailing the seas, or flying aircraft, or digging Army or Marine Corps
operations—they are the ones who will thank you, because you are making it
possible for them to be the best equipped, the best trained, and the most alert
military in the history of the United States.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:45 a.m. in the
Georgetown Room at the Washington Hilton Hotel.
The Women's Forum on National Security consisted
of the ladies auxiliaries of 18 national veterans
organizations.
In his opening remarks, the President referred to
Mrs. Maurice Kubby, president of the American
Legion Women's Auxiliary and chairperson of the
women's forum.
107
Letter to the Speaker of the House Urging Action on
Supplemental Military and Economic Assistance for Cambodia.
February 25, 1975
Dear Mr. Speaker:
I wish to convey to the House of Representatives my deep concern over the
present critical situation in Cambodia. An independent Cambodia cannot sur-
vive unless the Congress acts very soon to provide supplemental military and
economic assistance.
Unless such assistance is provided, the Cambodian army will run out of
ammunition in less than a month.
The Cambodian people are totally dependent on us for their only means of
resistance to aggression. The Communist forces now attacking have a constant,
massive outside source of supply from the North as has been demonstrated by
their ability to sustain the current heavy offensive.
279
