April 18
[196]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
The fact that this is a cross-section group, I think, is fundamentally and ab-
solutely essential.
Every administration—at least in my 20-some years in Washington-faces an
agenda of very pressing issues, calling in each instance for immediate action.
In 1975 these issues are: number one, America's role in the world; number
two, the reestablishment of our economic health; and number three, the creation
of a new and long-range policy on energy.
It is my understanding that Frank Zarb, who is head of the Federal Energy
Administration and who is the Executive Director of the Energy [Resources]
Council, has talked to you about the need and the programs and the status of
our energy program.
I can only emphasize this: Every day, unless we do something to develop
alternative sources of energy in the United States, our great country becomes
more and more and more vulnerable to outside sources, in this case, and in this
day and age, foreign nations who have a literal stranglehold on a very im-
portant source of energy.
So, I hope and trust that you can help us get the Congress to act, not on 535
energy programs-one for each Senator and one for each Member of the
House—but one energy program. And with your help, that can be done.
The reestablishment of our economic health: We have gone through a very
tough time. I am sure members of my top staff have told you how we are doing,
what the prospects are. I am convinced that the analysis given to me—and, I
presume, given to you—is an accurate one and that sometime early in the
third quarter of this calendar year we are going to see some very significant
signs of an upturn.
On the American role in the world, I would be remiss if I didn't make a
comment or two. We have suffered in the last month two very unfortunate
developments. One, we were not able to achieve an important step in the path
for progress, for peace in the Middle East. And of course, the tragedy in Indo-
china is a serious one.
But let me say directly to each and every one of you that the United States
is going to keep its commitments to its friends. The United States is telling its
potential or real adversaries that they must not seek to take advantage. In
order to help our friends and to meet any challenges from our foes, the United
States is going to be strong in the field of national security.
Certainly, the problems that I have mentioned require our best thinking—
and that includes ours as well as yours—and the most decisive action. But
519
