[351]
June 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
throughout the country with them. Even given top priority, months could be
required before implementation is completed. Thus, H.R. 4485—far from help-
ing during the coming months—would actually inhibit home purchases among
those eligible for assistance, since these families would understandably want
to wait until the subsidies become available.
Fourth, the bill has long-term impacts and implications that are inappropriate
and undesirable for an "emergency" measure. One of the subsidy options in-
cluded in the bill would require home-owners with 6 percent interest rate
mortgages to make increasing monthly payments in the future, up to the full
payments that would be required at current market interest rates. I believe
there will almost certainly be intense pressures for relief against these phase-up
provisions in years to come—and thus for a continuation of the deep subsidies
this option involves. Moreover, even if this approach works as intended, it
would require substantial government outlays in future years when the economy
may be operating at full capacity with inflationary forces at or approaching
their peaks.
Fifth, the subsidy provisions of H.R. 4485 pose substantial problems of equity
among those who would and would not be eligible for the relatively large sub-
sidies provided. As the bill is written, substantial subsidies would be made avail-
able to families within a given income group. Other families with similar or
even less income would receive no subsidy at all and would be expected to pay
full market rate mortgages. These discrepancies would be very sharp and hard
to justify. In some areas, it would permit families with incomes well over
$25,000 to qualify while, in other areas, families with incomes as low as $6,000
would be ineligible.
Sixth, H.R. 4485 would make a number of undesirable changes in our housing
and community development laws. For example, the bill would extend the
homeownership program authorized under Section 235 of the National Housing
Act. It would also extend and expand the program of subsidized government
rehabilitation loans authorized under Section 312 of the Housing Act of 1964.
These provisions would reverse decisions the Congress itself enacted last year
after one of the most extensive reviews of Federal housing policy ever conducted.
Also objectionable are the provisions which would divert funds from the new
leased housing program, and establish special rules for certain State agency
housing projects assisted under Section 236 of the National Housing Act.
Finally, the foreclosure provision of H.R. 4485 is too limited in its mechanism
for providing relief. This provision reflects the concern that mortgage fore-
closures may soar during the recession. To date, no such trend has developed
862
