July 17
[410]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
So, I just want to thank you for achieving it and congratulate you for the fine
honor that has been accorded to you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:15 p.m. in the Rose
Garden at the White House. Mr. and Mrs. James R.
Ottoman and their three children were selected in
the 1975 Farm Family of the Year competition
sponsored by the Farmers Home Administration.
410
Remarks at the Annual Meeting of the SER-Jobs for
Progress Organization in Arlington, Virginia. July 17, 1975
THANK YOU very, very much for the opportunity of coming over and meet-
ing with you for a very few minutes and to make some observations and
comments.
I understand that you are all active participants either on the board of direc-
tors of SER [Service Employment Redevelopment] or people who are working
with SER in an effort to improve the job opportunities and the job responsibili-
ties of the members of the Hispanic communities, some 16 million, as I under-
stand.
I should say to all of you that over the last several months, I had hoped that
I might meet with other organizations that have a very close and deep connec-
tion with the members of the Hispanic community in the United States, but
for one reason or another it wasn't feasible.
We do hope that in the months ahead we can do something affirmatively
and effectively in the way of job opportunities and job responsibilities for those
that you represent. This is a very meaningful requirement, in my judgment,
because historically, I think it is recognized that those opportunities and respon-
sibilities have not been available.
The situation we find ourselves in today, unfortunately, is the economic period
of recession, although the record is quite clear at the present time that we have
what some people allege to be a bottoming out, and we are now starting upward.
And what is the significance of that development? For a period of 5 or 6 months,
we had nothing but bad news. At the present time, we are seeing much, much
more good news than bad news. I am confident that in the third and fourth
quarters of this year, and even beginning now, the situation is going to be con-
siderably brighter.
What that means is that for the last 5 or 6 months, while we were in a slide
toward the bottom of a recession, we not only lost jobs for everybody, but for
997
