[135]
March 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
In many ways, the President and the American people now wait for the Con-
gress to catch up with us.
As Ralph Waldo Emerson once said, and I quote: "In skating over thin ice
our safety is our speed."
Well, despite the weather outside, the spring thaw is coming, and the Congress
must pick up its speed.
Thank you for coming today. I am deeply grateful that you are here. And
I close with a traditional and heartfelt saying, "Let us hear from you." And I
must add, I am sure I will.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4 p.m. in the East Room at the White House.
136
Special Message to the Congress on Federal Airport and
Airway Development Programs. March 17, 1975
To the Congress of the United States:
In
my
fiscal year 1976 Budget Message, I stated that my Administration would
transmit legislation to restructure existing Federal airport and airway develop-
ment programs. Following extensive consultations with members of the Con-
gress, State and local governments, aviation groups, and others, I am today
sending a comprehensive legislative program to the Congress.
To help ensure continued improvement in the safety and efficiency of the
Nation's excellent air transportation system, this program will extend for five
years the 1970 Airport and Airway Development Act to provide funding au-
thorizations for fiscal years 1976-80.
As an additional step to enable State and local officials to plan and to manage
Federal airport assistance effectively, this bill would establish multi-year, pre-
dictable formula to allocate the bulk of the aviation grants funds directly to
States and local airport sponsors. This formula approach, coupled with other
features of this bill which provide more flexibility in the use of Federal assistance,
will enable State and local officials to address their highest priority airport needs
while reducing burdensome Federal red tape. I am also proposing removal of
federal restrictions which currently prevent State and local governments from
imposing certain airport taxes.
One of my principle goals is the establishment of strong partnerships among
Federal, State and local governments in the execution of national domestic
352
