[137]
March 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
This has been a most exciting morning. As we were getting off the plane at
the county airport, a rather amazing thing happened. Somebody asked me how
to get to the campus of the University of Notre Dame. What made it so amaz-
ing-it was Father Hesburgh. [Laughter]
I especially want to thank Father Hesburgh for all he has done to make me
and my party most welcome here today, and particularly for granting amnesty
to the classes this morning.
It is also a rare opportunity for me to be at Notre Dame, the home of the
Fighting Irish, on, of all days, St. Patrick's Day. I tried to dress appropriately,
and honestly, I have a green tie on. Let's face it, this is one day we can all be
part of the greening of America.
As your next-door neighbor from Michigan, I have always been impressed by
the outstanding record of the students of the University of Notre Dame. You
have always been leaders in academic achievement, in social concerns, in sports
prowess, and now once again, you are blazing new paths in the developments
of new concepts in mass transportation. Some communities have the monorail;
some have the subway; Notre Dame has the quickie. [Laughter]
The Fighting Irish of Notre Dame have become a symbol of the tenacity and
determination of the American people. But Notre Dame believes not only in
might on the football field or on the basketball court but in a spiritual response
to humanity's struggles for a decent life.
I have been told that many of you chose to go without a normal meal, eating
only a bowl of rice, to save money to help feed the world's hungry. It is heart-
warming to know that students are concerned about others abroad at a time
when many here at home are finding it difficult to afford an education or to get
a job. Although life is hard for many Americans, I am proud that we continue
to share with others. And that, in my opinion, is the measure of genuine com-
passion. And I congratulate you.
I am especially proud to be on a campus that looks up to God and out to
humanity at a time when some are tempted to turn inward and turn away from
the problems of the world. Notre Dame's great spokesman, Father Hesburgh,
is known in Washington as a nonconformist. I must admit that I do not share
all of the Father's views. But he is following one nonconformist viewpoint to
which I fully subscribe, and I quote: "Be not conformed to this world: but be ye
transformed by the renewing of your mind, that ye may prove what is that good,
and acceptable, and perfect, will of God."
To conform to apathy and pessimism is to drop out and to cop out. In that
sense, I fully reject conformity. In that sense, I am a nonconformist who con-
354
