[307]
June 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
energy to keep it running. We need administrators and engineers and chem-
ists to help.
Best of all, we live in a nation where our dreams are limited only by our
imagination and our willingness to work. Now let us put that willingness and
that imagination to work in solving the problems facing America and in
creating a nation in which self-fulfillment is a way of life.
The fact that you have completed your years here at Holton-Arms and are
graduating today says something about your personal willingness and your
dedication and your motivation. Whatever form your participation in the future
takes, I leave these thoughts with you: Always be open to new ideas and chal-
lenged by distant horizons; always consider achievement and excellence as
ample rewards for whatever career you choose or role in life you select; always
be receptive to love and capable of responding in kind; and always remember
that you carry with you, wherever you go, the devotion of your family and the
affection of your friends.
Our hearts and our hopes for the future go with you today. May God bless
each of you.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:08 a.m. on the
grounds of the school. In his opening remarks, he
referred to John L. Hamilton, chairman of the board
of trustees, and James W. Lewis, headmaster,
Holton-Arms School; and Right Rev. John T.
Walker, Suffragan Bishop of Washington, D.C.
308
Statement on Signing the Securities Acts Amendments of 1975.
June 5, 1975
THE AMERICAN economy has grown and prospered over the years through
a system of free enterprise more vigorous and successful than any other eco-
nomic system in the world. Capital investment has produced millions of jobs
and thousands of business opportunities for Americans. The success of that
investment system is convincingly demonstrated in every index of the magni-
tude and basic strength of our economy, and in comparison with the economies
of other nations.
Today our economy is faced with serious challenges. An unprecedented sup-
ply of new capital will be required over the next few years to help restore and
broaden a sound, expansionary capital base through business and Government
investment. In order to insure that our capital markets continue to function
fairly and efficiently to meet these challenges, it is vital that we constantly seek
776
