April 4
[169]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
My vision is one of peace, and my vision of America is of a people who will
retain their self-respect and self-defense so that this vision can emerge.
During the period of my administration, Americans will neither resign from
the world, nor abandon hope of peaceful and constructive relations with all
people. That is the mission of America today and the one it must have for the
future.
We will maintain credibility and constancy in all our policies at home as
well as abroad. Obviously, we live in a complicated and a tense moment in
world history. Events are moving with shocking speed, but we will not with-
draw inward nor become paralyzed by a state of anxiety.
We have the world's greatest capacities, and we will mobilize them in the best
American tradition. As I have said, I am an optimist. We can meet the test.
It is not merely the latest test of our moral influence throughout the world. It
is a test of our will to develop our own resources, to reduce bureaucratic waste,
and to control nonessential spending with the same vigilance that we maintain
the power of our defense force.
This task can be met only by reducing vulnerability to weaknesses in our
economy and energy capacities. An adequate security program is directly
dependent upon sound economic and energy policies.
In 1906, San Francisco survived doomsday. In 1975, some people may quake,
but the earth will remain solid under our feet. The basic strength of America
is unshaken. San Francisco is a showcase of a city that endured a disaster, but
returned to a greater glory. America has suffered nothing remotely comparable
to the devastation that struck suddenly on April 18, 1906.
America has the will. America has the resources. America has the know-how.
Most importantly, America has the faith.
I share your belief in America. If you despaired of this Nation and its future,
you would not be here tonight. Together we will build a new and a better
America and a better world.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:10 p.m. in the
Grand Ballroom at the St. Francis Hotel. The San
Francisco Bay Area Council was a private, non-
profit organization involved in research and advo-
cacy on major public policies affecting the nine-
county San Francisco Bay region.
439
