[169]
April 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
as well as they know the Bay Area has experienced, over history, great adversity.
This month marks the 69th anniversary of the disastrous San Francisco earth-
quake. In 1906, San Francisco was challenged and passed the ultimate test of
its recuperative vitality. Local courage and local determination prevailed. The
Bay Area now offers the world an international center that represents the best
of what Americans can do.
Your council is typical of the genius and the energy that personify the state
of mind that is San Francisco and the Bay Area. You are a consistent, construc-
tive force in the nine counties in this great part of California. You act, as I
understand it, not as self-interested individuals, but as a community seeking the
improvement and the progress of a region. Your region is a great source of
America's pride.
I commend you for this demonstration of Bay Area willpower and Bay Area
know-how. I commend you for the success of decisionmaking processes on a
local level. The magic of San Francisco and the Bay Area was not conjured up
in the bureaus and agencies of the Federal Government. It developed spon-
taneously right here on the shores of the San Francisco Bay. It emerged from
the people, from your optimism and your vision.
The Bay Area is a showcase of what can be achieved by returning the decision-
making processes to the people. Our economy no longer can afford the waste,
duplication, and misunderstandings that occur when a Federal Government
tries to do for the local people what they can best achieve for themselves.
Only this morning, in spite of a small snowstorm, I had the privilege of visit-
ing by helicopter the fascinating geothermal power development at the geysers.²
Fred Hartley and Sherm Sibley³ and others were my hosts, and I am deeply
grateful to them. They explained how this natural steam from inside the Earth
already supplies a significant share of the Bay Area's energy needs, saving mil-
lions and millions of barrels of oil imported from foreign sources, millions of
dollars of foreign payments.
Government's role in this promising new energy development, I was told—
and I hate to admit it—has mostly been one of obstructing faster development.
I, for myself, to the extent that I have any authority—I sometimes wonder—
[laughter]-I promise to take care of the Federal Government's share of the
redtape. I just came, a few hours ago, from a meeting with a number of Western
2 The President visited "The Geysers" geothermal power field in Sonoma County, Calif.
3 Chairman of the board and president of Union Oil Company of California, and chairman of the
board of Pacific Gas and Electric Company, respectively.
432
