February 24
[104]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
provide that vital backup role that you have always played as an integral part
of our Defense Establishment and posture. I thank you for this contribution
which has been so significant over the years.
Let me conclude with this final observation, if I might. Of his many titles—
President, general, revolutionary leader, colonial hero, Father of our Country—
George Washington cherished most the very simple description of being a free
man. In that spirit, I accept the high honor that you have bestowed on me this
evening with the deepest gratitude and the most profound appreciation. I
accept it and will do my very best to be faithful to its ideals.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:46 p.m. in the
International Ballroom at the Washington Hilton
Hotel. In his opening remarks, he referred to Senator
John C. Stennis, chairman of the Senate Armed
Services Committee, and Brig. Gen. Ted W. Soren-
sen, national vice president of the association.
104
Memorandum on Red Cross Month. February 24, 1975
Memorandum for Heads of Executive Departments and Agencies
I HAVE just issued a Proclamation [4352] which designates March as Red
Cross Month. It will be a period when each of us should consider the volunteer
spirit that prevails in this Nation as typified by the good works of the American
Red Cross.
The Red Cross was on the scene last April in 13 of our States after catastrophic
tornadoes leveled communities and left thousands homeless. Its volunteers and
staff provided fast and open-handed relief to the victims. Similarly, the Red
Cross was responsible for providing assistance in thousands of other disaster
situations during the year.
When blood is required by the ill and injured, the Red Cross through volun-
teer donors provides the blood required to save lives to over half of the country's
medical facilities.
Millions of us have acquired the skills that save lives in first aid and water
safety courses taught by Red Cross volunteers.
And this Nation's veterans and members of our military forces turn to Red
Cross volunteers and staff in time of personal and family crisis for help.
In issuing the Proclamation, I suggest that the Federal Government and its
employees, including members of our Armed Forces, consider volunteering for
273
