[86]
February 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
So spoke Abraham Lincoln.
Lincoln had the courage to openly assert that he would conduct the affairs of
his administration so that, as he put it: If at the end, when I come to lay down
the reins of power, I have lost every other friend on Earth, I shall have at least
one friend left, and that friend shall be deep down inside me.
The finest testimonial I can conceive for Abraham Lincoln is for the Congress
and for the President to unite at once on an effective program for national
recovery and economic independence. I concur with the vision which Lincoln
puts this way: "We of the Congress and this administration will be remembered
in spite of ourselves."
Ladies and gentlemen, in serving America we shall nobly save or weakly
abandon what Lincoln said, so aptly described as the last great hope on Earth.
The way, as it was in his day, is plain, peaceful, generous, just; a way which,
if followed, the world will forever applaud and God must forever bless.
Despite all the tribute that we can pay him, Lincoln himself honors his own
memory the very best, because he left all of us a message about humility and
humanity that continues to inspire and to help us grow as a people.
I believe the reason each generation of Americans find inspiration from
Lincoln's life is because he seems, above all, to have been so human himself.
He was humble. His compassion for others came from an understanding of
himself. He laughed. He laughed at himself and with others. He ran for Presi-
dent knowing that he faced the most grave political crisis in the Nation's history.
He accepted the challenge because he believed in his own ability.
In these days of new hardships, new responsibilities, and new challenges, it
is important for us as a people to reflect upon the past, to draw strength from
triumph over great trials in other times.
We honor the memory of Lincoln best not only by formal ceremonies but by
doing our best to preserve for the next generation the legacy he so proudly
handed down to us—a government of the people, by the people, and for the
people.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:30 p.m. at the
Lincoln Memorial. In his opening remarks, he
referred to program chairman Charles A. Brady, Jr.,
commander-in-chief of the Military Order of the
Loyal Legion, a patriotic organization founded on
the day President Lincoln died; Frederick D. Hunt,
chairman of the Legion's Washington area chapter;
and Ambassador Guillermo Sevilla-Sacasa of Nicara-
gua, dean of the Washington diplomatic corps.
234
