[166]
April 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
Congress to hold the lid, and I intend to appeal to the American people to get
their Members of Congress-Senators and Congressmen-to stop coming to the
White House with one spending bill after another.
In addition, I am asking the Congress to enact a provision that would make
applicable for fiscal year 1976 the budget control act that was enacted last year
by the Congress.
Under the present law, the budget control act, which forces the Congress to
set a ceiling, does not actually come into effect until fiscal year 1977. It seems to
me in the crisis that we face today, that the Congress ought to amend the budget
control act and make it applicable to fiscal year 1976, so they will impose on
themselves—the individual Members of Congress, House and Senate—a spend-
ing limitation.
Now, they are going through sort of a practice session on it. I wish they would
abandon the practice session and get down to the ball game and they, them-
selves, set a spending limit at the level that I indicated.
Q. What I am asking, Mr. President, is if you have any strings to your bow
other than these Congressional strings? In other words, what I am asking you
is, do you plan any executive action to try to curb a resurgence or prevent a
resurgence of inflation?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the executive actions will be directives to the various
departments of the Government to limit their spending even within the appro-
priated amounts that Congress has made available.
We are expecting every department to spend as little as possible to carry out
their programs or their mandates, and this includes holding the line on Federal
personnel; it includes the limitations on spending for anything that cannot be
justified. Under the law, that is the maximum that I can do in an executive
capacity.
PRESIDENT THIEU OF THE REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
[6.] Q. Mr. President, if it would alleviate the refugee problem in South
Vietnam and bring about something of a temporary cease-fire, would you urge
President Thieu to resign?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't believe that it is my prerogative to tell the head of
state elected by the people to leave office. I don't believe whether it is one head
of state or another makes any difference in our efforts to help in the humani-
tarian program.
We are going to carry it on, I hope, with the full cooperation of the South
Vietnamese Government. And I don't think it appropriate for me to ask him,
416
