January 30
[56]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
workers in government from the various States and local communities, ladies
and gentlemen:
Al Quie is a very hard man to follow, whether in political debate, and espe-
cially at a prayer session. There are very few people I know who demonstrate
better the truth that to be a leader, one must first be a servant. And Al is indeed
a diligent servant of God and of his fellow men.
Yes, I have been fortunate to know, during a few years in Washington, many,
many others who have the same strength, the same feeling. And it has been a
great experience for me.
The platform on which we are standing this morning—“standing in the need
of a prayer," as the old spiritual goes-is broad enough and strong enough to
hold politicians of all elements of all parties, men and women of many different
convictions, both religious and political convictions. The beauty of Joseph's coat
is its many colors, and the beauty of these prayer breakfasts is the many faiths
they bring together. We are joined in the profound realization that none of us
can go it alone, and that we do not need to go it alone if we seek the help of God
and of our fellowship.
While I have been coming to these annual gatherings for a good many years,
I must admit that this one takes on a little different meaning. In the past, I have
found it an opportunity for reflection and for rededication and an occasion to
pray for our country and its leaders, for my friends and my loved ones, for the
courage to do what is right, and forgiveness for my own shortcomings and
trespasses.
But since we last met, I have discovered another aspect of the power of prayer:
I have learned how important it is to have people pray for me. It is often said that
the Presidency is the loneliest job in the world. Yes, and in a certain sense, I
suppose it is. Yet, in all honesty, I cannot say that I have suffered from loneliness
these past 6 months.
The reason, I am certain, has been that everywhere I go, among old friends or
among strangers, people call out from the crowd or will say quietly to me, “We're
praying for you," or "You are in our prayers," and I read the same sentiments in
my mail. Of course, there are some that are not so inspiring, but the great ground
swell of good will that comes from the true spirit of America has been a wonder-
ful source of strength to me as it was, I am sure, to other Presidents before me.
Believe me, having counted the votes and knowing that you have them is a great
satisfaction, but the satisfaction of knowing that uncounted numbers of good
people are praying for you is infinitely more rewarding.
131
