January 13
[26]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
On Wednesday, I will report to the new Congress on the state of the Union
and ask for its help to quickly improve it. But neither Congress nor the Presi-
dent can pass laws or issue orders to assure economic improvement and instant
prosperity. The Government can help by equalizing unfair burdens, by setting
an example of sound economic actions, and by exerting leadership through
clear and coordinated national recovery programs.
Tonight, I want to talk to you about what must be done. After all, you are the
people most affected.
Since becoming your President 5 months ago, economic problems have been
my foremost concern. Two elements of our problem are long-range—inflation
and energy. Both are affected not only by our actions but also by international
forces beyond our direct control. The new and disturbing element in the
economic picture is our worsening recession and the unemployment that goes
with it.
We have made some progress in slowing the upward spiral of inflation and
getting interest rates started down, but we have suffered sudden and serious
setbacks in sales and unemployment. Therefore, we must shift our emphasis
from inflation to recession, but in doing so, we must not lose sight of the very
real and deadly dangers of rising prices and declining domestic energy supplies.
Americans are no longer in full control of their own national destiny when
that destiny depends on uncertain foreign fuel at high prices fixed by others.
Higher energy costs compound both inflation and recession, and dependence
on others for future energy supplies is intolerable to our national security.
Therefore, we must wage a simultaneous three-front campaign against reces-
sion, inflation, and energy dependence. We have no choice. We need, within 90
days, the strongest and most far-reaching energy conservation program we
have ever had.
Yes, gasoline and oil will cost even more than they do now, but this program
will achieve two important objectives: It will discourage the unnecessary use
of petroleum products, and it will encourage the development and substitution
of other fuels and newer sources of energy.
To get started immediately on an urgent national energy plan, I will use the
Presidential emergency powers to reduce our dependence on foreign oil by
raising import fees on each barrel of foreign crude oil by $1 to $3 over the next
3 months.
31
