[226]
May 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
fully and expeditiously, in the interests of the health of the American economy
and the strengthening of harmonious and mutually beneficial economic rela-
tions among all countries of the world.
The White House,
GERALD R. FORD
May 1, 1975.
NOTE: The 54-page report is entitled "Nineteenth Annual Report of the President of the United States on
the Trade Agreements Program-1974."
227
Remarks at the Swearing In of Rogers C. B. Morton as
Secretary of Commerce. May 1, 1975
Thank you very much, Fred. Mr. Vice President, Rog Morton, distinguished
Members of the Congress, Mr. Justice Powell, members of the Department of
Commerce family, ladies and gentlemen:
I think there is some significance to my coming here. It has a dual purpose:
one, to indicate my great interest in the Department of Commerce, as the
former Secretary has said; and my great interest in one of my closest and best
friends, Rog Morton.
I do want to pay my respects to a very vital department of the Government
and to a devoted friend of mine. This is a very special day for Rog Morton. In
addition to becoming Secretary of Commerce, with its many duties and great
responsibilities, I have also asked him to continue as the Chairman of the Energy
Resources Council, with all of its very essential and vital responsibilites. I have
a feeling there is going to be an awful lot of energy conserved, but I am not
sure that it's going to be done by Rogers.
Because of his dual responsibility, Rog will be wearing two hats, and from
my knowledge of him over a long period of time, he can do it. But, I don't
mean he has a big head. [Laughter] I think he has just got plenty of talent.
I have had the privilege of knowing Rog as a Congressman, party chairman,
a Cabinet member, and in each capacity, he has done an outstanding job. And
I am absolutely confident he will continue this string of successes as the new
Secretary of Commerce.
With the end of the Vietnam era, tragic as it was, I think it is time for
America to look ahead, to move forward, as I have said before, with a new
614
