[92]
February 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
recommendations to me for the formation of task forces and review groups of
officials at the appropriate levels of Departments and Agencies involved.
For the Domestic Council to carry out my objectives, it is essential that the
Council have the full cooperation of your Department or Agency, including
the necessary staff support for the various task forces and review groups which
will be established.
I am today announcing my intention to appoint Mr. James M. Cannon, Ex-
ecutive Director of the Domestic Council and Assistant to the President for
Domestic Affairs. Richard L. Dunham will be the Deputy Director of the Do-
mestic Council. I expect them to work closely with the Vice President in con-
ducting the operations of the Domestic Council.
To provide for full coordination of the work of the Domestic Council with
the work of other policy bodies, the Executive Director of the Economic Policy
Board and the Executive Director of the Energy Resources Council will be
designated as members of the Domestic Council.
NOTE: The text of the memorandum was released at New York, N.Y.
GERALD R. FORD
93
Letter Accepting the Resignation of Counsel to the President
Phillip E. Areeda. February 14, 1975
Dear Phil:
I have your letter of February 7, and it is with sincere gratitude for your
dedicated service to our Nation that I accept your resignation as Counsel to the
President, effective on a date to be determined.
In doing so, I welcome this opportunity to express my personal gratitude for
your unhesitating support and willing assistance during the past months of
transition. You brought to your responsibilities on my staff great energy, skill
and expertise. Your past experience and knowledge of the White House and of
the Federal Government have enabled you to make significant contributions to
the development of our legislative programs and to the establishment of my
Administration. Your wise counsel and able direction have earned the respect
of all your colleagues as well as my own great admiration.
I am most grateful for your good wishes for my Administration and for your
kind of offer of future assistance. You can be sure if the occasion ever arises, we
won't hesitate to again call on your talents.
258
