[95]
February 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
95
Remarks at an Unveiling Ceremony at the George Washington
Masonic National Memorial, Alexandria, Virginia.
February 17, 1975
Most worshipful Brother Ellis, most worshipful Brother Fowler, grand mas-
ters and other officers of the fraternity, Brothers, and friends:
Let me, at the outset, express my deepest personal gratitude to Brother Ellis
for his more than generous observations and comments, and I truly hope that
my performance in the future will bear out the comments that he has made
concerning the past. I am deeply grateful for those very kind words.
The dedication of this medallion gives me a great personal pleasure and, of
course, is an honor that I will always cherish.
When I took my obligation as a master mason—incidentally, with my three
younger brothers—I recalled the value my own father attached to that order.
But I had no idea that I would ever be added to the company of the Father of
our Country and 12 other members of the order who also served as Presidents
of the United States.
Masonic principles-internal, not external—and our order's vision of duty to
country and acceptance of God as a Supreme Being and guiding light have sus-
tained me during my years of Government service. Today especially, the guide-
lines by which I strive to become an upright man in Masonry give me great
personal strength.
Masonic precepts can help America retain our inspiring aspirations while
adapting to a new age. It is apparent to me that the Supreme Architect has set
out the duties each of us has to perform, and I have trusted in His will with
the knowledge that my trust is well-founded.
As our Nation approaches its 200th anniversary, we do live in very challeng-
ing times. It was almost 200 years ago, in the darkest days of our war for inde-
pendence, that George Washington answered a question that is sometimes asked
today. The question is whether things are as bad as some say.
George Washington answered, and I quote: "We should never despair. Our
situation before has been unpromising and has changed for the better, so I trust
it will again. If new difficulties arise, we must only put forth new exertions and
proportion our efforts to the exigency of the times."
Let us today rededicate ourselves to new efforts as Masons and as Americans.
260
