May 28
[285]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
out our country. His wise counsel assisted Secretaries of Defense and the Army,
the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and a succession of Presidents.
General Lincoln will be missed by all of us, here in Washington as Director
of the Office of Emergency Preparedness and a member of the National Se-
curity Council, and around the world where Army officers he taught are now
serving our country with the same devotion he exemplified.
NOTE: General Lincoln was Director of the Office of Emergency Preparedness and a member of the National
Security Council from 1969 to 1973.
285
Veto of a Bill To Authorize Appropriations for Tourism
Programs. May 28, 1975
To the House of Representatives:
I am returning herewith, without my approval, H.R. 5357, which would
authorize appropriations totalling $98,125,000 to the Secretary of Commerce
for the promotion of tourist travel.
This bill would reinstitute in the Department of Commerce a domestic tour-
ism program to encourage Americans to travel within the United States. It
also would authorize appropriations totalling $90 million for the period July 1,
1976 through September 30, 1979, for continuation and expansion of the current
program of the United States Travel Service to promote and facilitate foreign
tourism in the United States.
My Administration proposed an extension of the existing tourism program
through fiscal year 1979 at an annual authorization level of $15 million to en-
courage foreign visitors to the United States. It opposed the reinstatement of a
domestic tourism program, which would be unnecessary.
The promotion and management of domestic tourism should remain the
responsibility of the private sector, especially the accommodation and transpor-
tation industries, and of state and local governments. Each of the fifty States has
its own tourist promotion agency. I find no justification for the Federal Gov-
ernment taking on this role.
Moreover, the amounts authorized in the bill for the Travel Service's existing
program are excessive, almost doubling the adequate amounts proposed by
my Administration for the promotion of foreign travel to this country.
I find it necessary, therefore, to withhold my approval from a bill which
733
