[302]
June 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
petus to the already fertile collaboration that has
been instituted between the United States and
Italy with a view to attaining the solutions that we
all look forward to in a framework of continued
and, indeed, strengthened solidarity among the
peoples of the West. I am sure that a similar result
will be obtained by the discussions that you and
the Secretary of State will have this afternoon with
our Prime Minister.
Mr. President, America is about to celebrate the
second centenary of the Declaration of Independence,
a document that embodies ideals and aspirations
that originated, among others, also in my own
country. In this connection, I need only recall that
the name of an Italian figures among the signatories
of the Declaration and that Benjamin Franklin had
frequent contacts with the more enlightened thinkers
in Italy. And Italy, therefore, feels that it wants to
participate wholeheartedly in this celebration.
In this spirit, then, I raise my glass to the good
health and well-being of yourself, Mr. President, and
Mrs. Ford, to the success of your lofty task at the
head of the American nation, and to the live and
deep-reaching friendship that binds Italy to the
United States.
Following the luncheon, the President met with
Italian Prime Minister Aldo Moro at the Villa
Madama.
303
Statement on the Death of Former Prime Minister Eisaku Sato
of Japan. June 3, 1975
I WAS deeply saddened to learn of the death of Eisaku Sato. The passing of this
great statesman, Nobel laureate, who did so much for his nation and for the
cause of peace, is a loss to the world. His service as Prime Minister of Japan won
the respect of all nations; his counsel was sought and valued. He was a close
friend of the American people and devoted his life to strengthening the ties
of understanding and friendship between the United States and Japan. I speak
on behalf of all Americans in expressing our deepest sympathy to Mrs. Sato and
the Japanese people.
NOTE: Eisaku Sato was Prime Minister of Japan from
1964 to 1972. The statement was released at Rome,
Italy.
Ambassador at Large U. Alexis Johnson headed
the U.S. delegation to the funeral of former Prime
Minister Sato in Tokyo on June 16, 1975.
304
Remarks on Greeting a Group of Americans in Rome.
June 3, 1975
Mr. Ambassador, Archbishop and other Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen:
This is our last stop on a wonderful trip in Europe that has, I believe, brought
good results in our long and hard work in the achievement of peace. But to
leave Europe with this wonderful welcome from the young people, whether
they are in grade school or in college or all others, this is a welcome that I will
never forget and a goodby that I will long remember.
766
