July 12
[399]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
It was a wonderful day yesterday, and it is wonderful to be back this evening.
I just wish that my score had been better. But it is too high. [Laughter]
But I had a lot of fun with good people, and I am delighted to be here with
[Senator] Bob Griffin today and Bob and Governor Milliken yesterday and all
the fine people who are here from the region as well as from elsewhere.
It is very refreshing to come up to God's country. It is a wonderful place,
not only in the summer like now, but as many of you know, we used to ski
over at Boyne Mountain in the northern area up here.
It is just a charming, delightful place with superb people, and you have been
nice to Betty and me, and we will try to come back if you will have us.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:15 p.m. at the Tra-
verse City Golf and Country Club. Following his
remarks, the President attended an informal banquet
for participants in the tournament.
399
Remarks at the Interlochen Arts Academy, Interlochen,
Michigan. July 12, 1975
President Jacobi, and all of the wonder people connected with Interlochen:
Let me thank all of you on behalf of Betty and myself. I don't know who
made the selections on the program, but everything on the list was on my list
of favorites, and I thank you.
May I congratulate again, on Betty's and my behalf, the superb young people
in the band, the orchestra, the chorus. It makes all of us extremely proud to
see young people with such enthusiasm and talent and dedication.
As I sat back there, I couldn't help but be impressed to see the words that are
on the back of the stage, "Dedicated to the promotion of world friendship
through the universal language of the arts."
That is a hallmark; that is something all of us should strive for and seek.
And all of you who participate, whether it is in the summer or year round,
make a giant contribution to a better world through the spoken word of the arts.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:56 p.m. following a
concert in the Kresge Auditorium at the Interlochen
Arts Academy. Roger Jacobi was president of the
academy.
983
