[334]
June 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
have shown that by dint of mutual effort, it has
been possible to bridge a dark chapter of the past.
At Georgetown University here in Washington,
D.C., a guest professorship will be created with a
view to deepening the close relations between the
university and the Federal Republic of Germany.
The new Air and Space Museum in the Smith-
sonian Institution is to have a large-scale projection
apparatus for the planetarium to be known as the
Einstein Spacearium. That great physicist, who was
director of the most outstanding research establish-
ment in his field, the Kaiser Wilhelm Institute of
Physics in Berlin, was expelled from Germany on
racial grounds. The dedication of the Einstein Space-
arium on 4 July, 1976, will again link his name,
which belongs to both countries, with Germany. One
of the best known modern composers of my country,
Karlheinz Stockhausen, will be composing special
electronic music for the occasion.
I have mentioned some of the contributions that
will be made by the Federal Government. But the
Laender of the Federal Republic of Germany and
many cities and organizations, too, are making
preparation to mark the bicentenary of German-
American ties. All this adds up to a token of grati-
tude to a nation which refuses to be excelled where
generosity is concerned. We Germans have every
reason to remember this, and I can assure you that
we shall never forget it.
As the President of a parliamentary democracy,
who was himself for many years a member of the
German Bundestag, I wish on this occasion to con-
vey another kind of thanks to the American
people-the thanks of the German parliamentarians
for the generous hospitality they have received in
America when they came here to get to know
the parliamentary work of this country and to see
for themselves what life here was really like. I my-
self was in the first group of members of the state
parliament of North-Rhine Westphalia which visited
your country in 1951. The friendly and generous
reception we were given then, so soon after the war,
had a profound effect on my view of America, I
will not deny it. And all my colleagues at that time
had the same experience.
When the independence of the United States of
America was proclaimed, men whose daring
matched their circumspection demonstrated to the
world that internal and external freedom require
each other. Freedom can only be preserved if it is
linked with the readiness to defend it both internally
and externally.
Precisely that is the purpose of the Alliance in
which we are united, the purpose of Atlantic part-
nership, to which we again committed ourselves
during your visit to Brussels a few weeks ago, Mr.
President.
But we should not content ourselves with defend-
ing our own freedom, our own prosperity. We can-
not tolerate a situation in which the dignity of man
is the privilege of but a few nations whilst the
majority sink in hunger and misery.
In the year 2000, the world population will be
7,000 million. Even now, agricultural production
can hardly keep pace with population growth. And
as the population grows, so too do the import re-
quirements of the developing countries, very many
of whom are the poorest nations on Earth. If social
development in the Third World is not to get
completely out of control, some 300 million new
jobs will have to be created there by 1980. But these
countries have not the resources to be able to achieve
this by themselves. They have to be helped. But this
objective can only be attained through sacrifices and
imagination.
This is where the members of the Atlantic Alli-
ance are called upon to make a big, joint effort. If
anything can fill us with the courage to face this
problem squarely and coolheadedly, it is that belief
in the inalienable dignity and freedom of man
which inspired the founders of this mighty Republic
200 years ago.
For the American democracy is old, but its mes-
sage is eternally young and great-like this coun-
try, the United States of America.
335
Address Before a Conference of the National Federation of
Independent Business. June 17, 1975
Thank you very much, Wilson Johnson. Members and guests of the National
Federation of Independent Business:
I welcome the opportunity to be here today and I thank you for your more
than generous welcome. I appreciate the opportunity to exchange some views
826
