May 23
[276]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
MR. DE SEGONZAC. You don't feel that there is, then, an isolationist mood in
America at this stage?
THE PRESIDENT. I think there was one developing during and even to some
extent after the war in Indochina or in South Vietnam. But now that we are freed
of that problem, it seems to me that the American people will feel better about
their relationships around the world, will want me as President and will want the
Congress as their Congress to live up to the commitments and be a part of an
interdependent world in which we live today.
FOREIGN POLICY
[3.] MR. MACNEIL. Mr. President, could we move on to the relations with the
Communist world and the question of détente. It seems to many that the United
States is moving into a new emphasis in its foreign policy away from détente
towards more support for the allies; in fact-Secretary Kissinger has even used
the word-of a need for a new "abrasive" foreign policy. How would you de-
scribe the post-Vietnam foreign policy, and is it shifting away from détente?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think there is a contradiction between reaffirmation
and strengthening of our relationships with our allies and a continuation of
détente.
The United States, through many administrations following World War II,
has had a consistent foreign policy. It is my desire, as President, to build on this
foreign policy that has been developed over the years.
It does encompass working with our allies in Europe, in the Middle East, in
Africa, in Latin America, in Asia, and in other parts of the world, and I think
by strengthening those relationships, it gives us a better opportunity to use
détente for the purposes for which it was designed.
Détente was not aimed at solving all the problems. It was an arrangement-
and still is—for the easing of tensions when we have a crisis.
Now, it can't solve every crisis, but it can be very helpful in some, and it
can have some long-range implications; for example, SALT I and hopefully
SALT II.
What I am saying is that our policy can be one of working more closely with
our allies and, at the same time, working, where we can, effectively with our
adversaries or potential adversaries.
MR. REIFENBERG. Mr. President, Secretary Kissinger has just repeated the
American commitment to West Berlin. He called it, as I recall it, “the acid test
of détente." Now, the Soviet Union has recently challenged the four-power
709
