April 18
[195]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
It took this Nation more than 180 years to reach a Federal budget of $100
billion on an annual basis. It took only 9 more years for that budget to hit $200
billion, and only 4 more years beyond that for the annual total to climb to
$300 billion.
Now, the Federal Government expects to spend about $322 billion in this
fiscal year, fiscal year 1975. With the cooperation of the Congress, I plan to hold
the budget for fiscal year 1976, which begins July 1, to approximately $356
billion.
Quite candidly, forthrightly, I am seriously concerned about the borrowing
that the Federal Government must do to support these levels of spending. In
these troubled economic times, however, I do believe it is necessary to help the
unemployed and to stimulate the economy by a responsible tax reduction.
I should add, parenthetically, if I have to make a choice between additional
Federal spending with governments passing out the taxpayer's money or what
the taxpayer borrows or, on the other hand, a plan to stimulate the economy by
a tax reduction, giving to the people the opportunity to spend their own money,
the choice is pretty simple for me. I like to leave it, or turn it back to the people
to spend rather than for governments to spend.
In perspective, Federal receipts for fiscal year 1976 would be more than $40
billion higher if our economy were operating at a normal rate. Quite frankly,
this economic problem that we have today—a recession which I think is be-
ginning to change a bit for the good-this economy, if it were operating at the
rate of only 1 year ago, the Nation would have balanced budgets for this fiscal
year as well as next fiscal year.
So, what I am really saying is that our problems, if we get hold of some of
these uncontrollables, relate primarily to getting a healthy economy. But in the
meantime, we do have to look after those who are unfortunately unemployed,
those who have not been able to get a job or hold a job. Once we get the
economy back on its feet—and we will, I can assure you—if we control the
uncontrollables, then we can have a balanced budget and a responsible fiscal
policy.
Now, despite what some are saying—and they say that at the local, State,
and Federal level we must keep on spending-I happen to believe that we can
do just the opposite. Really, the heart of our financial dilemma today is the
endless stream of promises made to the American people in the last generation,
and continuing right today, that the Government can and will satisfy most of
the needs of all of our people, and even their wants. I think the language is one
515
