[109]
February 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
There is some evidence that the public now believes, as most experts agree,
that we are bottoming out, so to speak, and the prospects for an increase in
employment and a decrease in unemployment will come sometime in the third
or fourth quarter of 1975.
Q. So, what you are saying then is that there is really nothing more that
you as President can do.
THE PRESIDENT. I do not believe so. On the other hand, if there is anything—
instead of increasing expenditures, as some have suggested—I would favor a
larger tax decrease, but at the present moment I do not think we have reached
that point.
I simply would hope that the Congress would act so we could find out
whether that is enough stimulant. But other than that, I know of no other
proposal.
CUBA
[10.] Q. Mr. President, your Hispanic adviser, Fernando DeBaca, told the
Miami News yesterday that you have never formally reevaluated U.S. foreign
policy toward Cuba since you became the President. Are you in the process of
reevaluating the Government's position? And do you foresee any lifting of eco-
nomic and diplomatic sanctions toward Cuba in the immediate future?
THE PRESIDENT. Very frequently in my daily meetings with Secretary of State
Kissinger we discuss Latin American policy, including our policy toward
Cuba. The policy today is the same as it has been, which is that if Cuba will
reevaluate and give us some indication of a change of its policy toward the
United States, then we certainly would take another look. But thus far, there
is no sign of Mr. Castro's change of heart, and so we think it is in our best interest
to continue the policies that are in effect at the present time.
ARMS SALES
[11.] Q. Mr. President, a number of responsible Americans, including Sen-
ator Mansfield, have expressed concern that we are selling more arms than ever
to more nations. We now sell to Pakistan as well as India, to Arab countries as
well as Israel. What is your credo in regard to arms sales? Is it influenced by the
state of the economy, and what do you say to those who say that such sales are
immoral?
THE PRESIDENT. First, let me be very specific. The sale of U.S. military equip-
ment to any country is not predicated on trying to help the U.S. economy. We
do have a policy of selling arms to other nations if that country feels it has an
294
