January 21
[36]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
both as to economic activity and, I hope, a betterment in the unemployment
figures.
THE CONGRESS AND FOREIGN POLICY
[20.] Q. Mr. President, in your State of the Union Message, you urged Con-
gress not to restrict your ability to conduct foreign policy. Did you have in mind
Senator Jackson's amendment on the emigration of Soviet Jews, and do you con-
sider this to be an example of the meddling by Congress in foreign policy?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't wish to get in any dispute with Members of Congress.
I think that such restrictive amendments as the one that was imposed on the trade
bill and the Eximbank legislation and the limitation that was imposed on several
pieces of legislation involving the continuation of military aid to Turkey, those
kind of limitations, in my judgment, are harmful to a President in the execution
and implementation of foreign policy.
I don't think that I should speculate as to what actually precipitated the action
of the Soviet Union in the cancellation of the trade agreement.
VIETNAM CONFLICT
[21.] Q. Mr. President, in an earlier Vietnam question you left open the
option for yourself of possibly asking Congress for the authority to engage in
bombing or naval action in the future. In light of the lengthy involvement by
the United States in Vietnam and the pains that that created, can you say now
whether or not there are any circumstances under which you might foresee
yourself doing that, or would you care to rule out that prospect?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think it is appropriate for me to speculate on a matter
of that kind.
SOCIAL SECURITY AND FOOD STAMPS
[22.] Q. Mr. President, you have proposed a 5-percent ceiling on the auto-
matic cost-of-living increase attached to social security, and your Administra-
tion has, in addition, proposed an increase in the amount of money that the
elderly poor must pay for food stamps. Do you stick by both of those positions?
What do you say to those who argue that the elderly poor are being asked to
assume an unfair burden of the hardships and sacrifices?
THE PRESIDENT. I think it is proper to indicate that I am not requesting Con-
gress to keep the social security payments at the present level. I am saying that
in order to have a total effort in this country, to combat inflation and to help
the economy, that there should be a 5-percent increase, but no more.
I think that is a fair recommendation under the circumstances, and I would
69
