[39]
January 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:07 p.m. in the
Sheraton-Park Room at the Sheraton-Park Hotel.
In his opening remarks, he referred to Fletcher L.
Byrom, chairman, and Alexander B. Trowbridge,
president of the Conference Board.
The board was an independent institution for
business and economic research, whose membership
included representatives of large and small businesses,
labor unions, trade associations, government agencies,
and colleges and universities.
40
Message to the Senate Transmitting the United States-Poland
Convention on Income Tax. January 23, 1975
To the Senate of the United States:
I transmit herewith, for Senate advice and consent to ratification, the Con-
vention between the Government of the United States of America and the Gov-
ernment of the Polish People's Republic for the Avoidance of Double Taxation
and the Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with Respect to Income as well as a related
exchange of notes.
I also transmit for the information of the Senate, the report of the Department
of State with respect to this Convention.
The Convention was signed on October 8, 1974, during the visit to Washing-
ton of Polish First Secretary Edward Gierek and is the first income tax conven-
tion between the two countries. The Convention is similar to other income tax
conventions recently concluded by this Government and it is expected to encour-
age and support the growing interest in bilateral trade and investment between
the two countries. It provides rules of tax jurisdiction, reduces or eliminates tax
liability in certain cases, ensures nondiscriminatory tax treatment and provides
for administrative cooperation.
I recommend that the Senate give this Convention and related exchange
of notes early and favorable consideration and give its advice and consent to
ratification.
The White House,
January 23, 1975.
GERALD R. FORD
NOTE: The convention and accompanying papers are printed in Senate Executive A (94th Cong., 1st sess.).
82
