[167]
April 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
America has the will, America has the resources, America has the know-how,
and America has the faith.
I share-as I look around this room-your belief in America. If you despaired
of this Nation and its future, you would not be here today. Together, with the
millions like you all over this great country, we will build a new and better
tomorrow.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:07 p.m. in the
International Room at the El Cortez Hotel and Con-
vention Center. He was introduced by William J.
Baroody, Jr., Assistant to the President for Public
Liaison.
In his opening remarks, the President referred to
Lawrence W. Cox, president of the San Diego
Chamber of Commerce, and John Henning, exec-
utive secretary-treasurer of the California Labor Fed-
eration, AFL-CIO.
168
Statement on the Crash of a C-5A Cargo Plane on a Mercy Flight
From Saigon, Republic of Vietnam. April 4, 1975
I AM deeply saddened at the loss of so many lives in the crash of the United
States C-5A mercy flight today near Saigon.
I wish to convey my heartfelt condolences to the families and friends of the
victims, many of whom were coming to new homes in the United States, and
to the volunteers who were caring for them on the flight.
Our mission of mercy will continue. The survivors will be flown here when
they are physically able. Other waiting orphans will make the journey.
This tragedy must not deter us from offering new hope for the living. The
Government and people of the United States offer this hope in our rededication
to assisting the Vietnamese orphans as best and as quickly as we can.
NOTE: The statement was released on board Air Force One en route from Palm Springs to San Francisco,
Calif.
169
Address in San Francisco Before the Annual Dinner Meeting
of the Bay Area Council. April 4, 1975
Thank you very much, Gene. Mayor Joe Alioto, distinguished guests, members
of the Bay Area Council:
It is really a great privilege and a very high honor to have the opportunity
of meeting so many of you tonight and, particularly, the opportunity to express
430
