[204]
April 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
I think, would lead to partisan problems that would be much, much worse
than any of the problems we have today, if we have any.
And I must say, in all honesty, Dr. Burns has been very understanding. When
the record of this last year is written, it seems to me that there has been a close
coordination between fiscal and monetary policy which will substantially con-
tribute to the recovery we are talking about the latter part of this year.
1976 PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN
[10.] MR. CRONKITE. Mr. President, speaking of the Presidential term, I
assume nothing has happened in the last few days to change your mind about
running in 1976. Will you enter the primaries?
THE PRESIDENT. Walter, I have indicated that I intend to be a candidate. I
have not made any categorical, legal determination that I will be a candidate.
I did say,
when I was up in New Hampshire last Friday, that I expected to be
up in New Hampshire in March of 1976. I like the country, I like the people,
and I might have a good reason to be up there.
MR. CRONKITE. Do you think that the incumbent President ought to stand
in the primaries then as a general principle?
The President. I like political competition, and I think it is wholesome for
the electorate to have candidates for whatever office stand up and defend, debate
what their views are.
MR. CRONKITE. Will you debate your opposition in 1976?
THE PRESIDENT. I haven't made that decision because I haven't decided cate-
gorically I am going to be a candidate, but we will take that under consideration.
MR. SEVAREID. But assuming you are a candidate, Mr. President, and if Mr.
Nixon, the last President, offered his campaign help to you, would you accept it?
THE PRESIDENT. I like to run on my own. And I think when I make the
decision to be a candidate, I will stand on my own record. I won't solicit others
to come in and help me.
MR. Schieffer. Mr. President, it seems to me you are giving us a little softer
answer than I had the impression you had been giving as I have been listening
to you give these speeches around the country recently.
THE PRESIDENT. Bob, you haven't heard me say categorically I was going to
be a candidate—and for a good reason. Let me tell you the reason that basically
keeps me from making an all-out decision.
As President I inherited a number of difficult problems: the economy, which
included inflation and unemployment, the problems of Vietnam, the Middle
556
