January 15
[28]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
This year's Federal deficit will be about $30 billion; next year's probably
$45 billion.
The national debt will rise to over $500 billion.
Our plant capacity and productivity are not increasing fast enough.
We depend on others for essential energy.
Some people question their Government's ability to make hard decisions
and stick with them; they expect Washington politics as usual.
Yet, what President Truman said on January 5, 1949, is even more true in
1975. We are better able to meet our people's needs. All Americans do have a
fairer chance to pursue happiness. Not only are we still the foremost nation in
the pursuit of peace but today's prospects of attaining it are infinitely brighter.
There were 59 million Americans employed at the start of 1949; now there
are more than 85 million Americans who have jobs. In comparable dollars, the
average income of the American family has doubled during the past 26 years.
Now, I want to speak very bluntly. I've got bad news, and I don't expect
much, if any, applause. The American people want action, and it will take both
the Congress and the President to give them what they want. Progress and
solutions can be achieved, and they will be achieved.
My message today is not intended to address all of the complex needs of
America. I will send separate messages making specific recommendations for
domestic legislation, such as the extension of general revenue sharing and the
Voting Rights Act.
The moment has come to move in a new direction. We can do this by fash-
ioning a new partnership between the Congress on the one hand, the White
House on the other, and the people we both represent.
Let us mobilize the most powerful and most creative industrial nation that
ever existed on this Earth to put all our people to work. The emphasis on our
economic efforts must now shift from inflation to jobs.
To bolster business and industry and to create new jobs, I propose a 1-year tax
reduction of $16 billion. Three-quarters would go to individuals and one-quarter
to promote business investment.
This cash rebate to individuals amounts to 12 percent of 1974 tax payments-
a total cut of $12 billion, with a maximum of $1,000 per return.
I call on the Congress to act by April 1. If you do—and I hope you will—the
Treasury can send the first check for half of the rebate in May and the second
by September.
The other one-fourth of the cut, about $4 billion, will go to business, including
farms, to promote expansion and to create more jobs. The 1-year reduction for
37
