[45]
January 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
elected to the House or to the Senate. So, the FBI ought to have files on those
people.
Now, in addition, as I understand it, the FBI in the course of investigating
a person gets information concerning somebody else, and that may be infor-
mation concerning a Member of Congress. I am told that that information that
is gotten in a peripheral way does go into a file.
That kind of information, in my judgment, ought to be reported to the
Member of the House or to the Member of the Senate.
MR. BROKAW. But why should it be retained, even? If there is no criminality
or evidence of it or they are not interviewing them for a job, why should they
even retain it in any fashion?
THE PRESIDENT. I think that is a good question, Tom. I would have no objec-
tion to having that kind of information disposed of.
MR. CHANCELLOR. As I understand it, sir, the way it works now is that the
FBI tells a Member of Congress if they have heard some scurrilous charge
against him, he denies it, and they keep both the charge and the denial in
his file.
THE PRESIDENT. I hadn't heard that, John, but I think that is kind of silly.
MR. CHANCELLOR. You mentioned the charter of the CIA and you mentioned
the responsibility of the United States Government to engage in a certain
amount of looking at and investigating citizens who are not necessarily charged
with a crime, as in job applications and in other things. Do you suppose that
we could work out a better way of sharing this responsibility in the American
Government? Could that come out of these FBI and CIA investigations?
THE PRESIDENT. I think you have to differentiate, John, between the charter
of the FBI and the responsibilities of the CIA. There is supposed to be a clear
line of demarcation between the two-
MR. CHANCELLOR. And apparently there wasn't, at times.
THE PRESIDENT.
-and for various reasons, that line was overstepped, and
of course, the investigations, I think, will expose what caused it and how we can
remedy it.
But the FBI has domestic responsibilities, responsibilities within the contin-
ental limits of the United States. The CIA is supposed to be an intelligence-
gathering bureau aimed at overseas operations on this country's behalf.
I think the CIA is vitally important to our total national security, both diplo-
matically as well as militarily. I can assure you that they do, in the areas that I
am intimately familiar with, an excellent job of providing the Department of
Defense and providing me with information that is important for decision-
104
