February 11
[85]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
pressed by the success here in Kansas. You have got a fine Governor. You have
got the legislature in the control of the Republican Party here. You have got
low unemployment in Kansas. You have got good economic conditions. I think
this is a good achievement record for the Republican Party in Kansas as well
as a whole, so I just hope we can spread this good progress through 49 other
States.
FORMER PRESIDENT NIXON
[14.] Q. Mr. President, there has been a lot of speculation recently about
former President Nixon's future. You talked with your predecessor by phone
last weekend. Can you tell us if Mr. Nixon is considering a return to the na-
tional scene? Would you welcome that? And would you perhaps consider ap-
pointing Mr. Nixon to an influential diplomatic post, such as Ambassador to
China?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Nixon called me last Saturday. The content of that con-
versation, since he initiated it, I think should come from Mr. Nixon himself.
Mr. Nixon is recovering from a very, very serious illness. I see no prospects
for any appointment because of his health. And any other comments concern-
ing the conversation, I think, should come from him.
REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
[15.] Q. Mr. President, are you and Dr. Kissinger still insisting on increased
aid to Vietnam, South Vietnam, and if so, why?
The President. Well, the United States made a very significant contribution
in Southeast Asia. Unfortunately and tragically, we lost some 55,000 American
lives, spent literally billions.
The South Vietnamese are now trying to carry on on their own. We have no
U.S. military forces there. We are living up to the Paris accords. The last Con-
gress authorized $300 million more in military assistance for South Vietnam on
the basis that that would give them sufficient military assistance so that they
could fight aggression by North Vietnam.
I am convinced that that $300 million would give to the South Vietnamese an
opportunity to defend themselves against aggression. I strongly believe that it is
a proper recommendation to the Congress. I hope that the Congress will
respond.
Q. But would you accept some sort of compromise proposal from those Mem-
bers of Congress who don't think the way you do?
229
