June 3
[302]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Mr. President, the warmth of the welcome given me today by you, by your
gracious and charming wife, and by the people of Rome on behalf of all of the
Italian people has been in the highest tradition of Italian hospitality. For me,
this delightful luncheon with so many friends symbolizes the depth of friend-
ship between our two countries.
In this spirit, I lift my glass in toast to the United States and to Italy, to our
continuing, growing friendship in the years ahead, to President Leone, to Prime
Minister Moro, and to the great Italian people.
NOTE: The President spoke at approximately 3 p.m.
in the Salone Delle Feste at the Palazzo Quirinale
in response to a toast by President Leone, who hosted
the luncheon.
President Leone spoke in Italian. His remarks
were translated by an interpreter as follows:
Mr. President:
It is with great pleasure that I take this opportu-
nity of again expressing to you, to Mrs. Ford, to the
Secretary of State, Dr. Kissinger, as well as to the
other eminent members of your party, the most
cordial greetings of the Italian people, the Govern-
ment, and myself, and to confirm to you my great
and sincere satisfaction at having you as so welcome
a guest in our country.
I should like to say first of all, how greatly we
appreciate the fact that you have wanted to include
this visit to Italy in the first trip that you are making
to Europe, thereby giving us the opportunity of re-
suming the fruitful dialog so happily begun on the
occasion of my visit to the United States in Septem-
ber of last year, a visit of which I harbor the most
happy memories and whose positive results were
expressed in the Joint Declaration of Washington.
To this document we attach the value of a substan-
tial step forward in Italo-American collaboration.
And a similar importance attaches to the two meet-
ings that we have had here in Rome with the Secre-
tary of State.
During this morning's talks, we noted with great
interest your impressions regarding the results of
your intensive diplomatic activity of these last few
days. These talks have brought to the attention of
our Government and public opinion the significance
and the importance of this first mission that you are
undertaking to Europe in order to stress the soli-
darity between the United States and her European
allies with a view to ever more promising develop-
ments of the process of détente among all nations
and the consolidation of the cause of peace. We par-
ticularly appreciate the efforts you are making to
find a peaceful and lasting solution of the Middle
East crisis, a matter, as you well know, to which
Italy is particularly sensitive.
The objective of peace that the United States
pursues offers new perspectives, thanks to the recent
meetings of Salzburg and to the further diplomatic
action that the United States intends to carry on. As
always, Italy gives its full support to these efforts
with the greatest commitment.
Italy continues to consider decisive the role that
our friend, the American nation, can play in en-
suring for the international community an orderly
and peaceful future based on the respect of the
principles of freedom, democracy, and progress that
constitute the common heritage of our civilizations,
the firmest of foundations for our understanding and
our alliance. For our part, we should like to assure
you that we shall make every effort to collaborate-
in the spirit of friendship and cooperation that binds
us to the United States and to our European allies-
in creating, maintaining, and consolidating every-
where a climate of confidence and peace and in pro-
moting a harmonious economic development to
ensure the balanced progress of all peoples and na-
tions. The grave problems of our times call for a
full understanding and the active collaboration of all
countries, the industrialized ones as well as the de-
veloping ones. Italy will make its convinced contri-
bution to the farsighted action that the United States
is undertaking to this end.
We have welcomed with profound satisfaction the
accent that you placed at the recent Brussels meeting
of the Atlantic Alliance on the fundamental value of
the relations between America and Europe for the
purpose of strengthening security and ensuring a
more even development of the two sides of the
Atlantic.
Italy, considering the Atlantic Alliance as an irre-
placeable instrument of equilibrium and peace, has
always held that a more concrete and effective
European dimension would also give new vigor to
the Alliance itself.
As you know, we in Italy feel a profound Euro-
pean vocation. This vocation is reinforced by our
realization that a strong and united Europe will be
an essential element in an increasingly close collabo-
ration with the United States and the West in
general for the solution of the great problems of
peace, stability, and harmonious progress of the
whole world that characterize our times.
Our meeting of this morning will give new im-
765
