[125]
March 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
spectrum party if it is going to be a viable force in the political situation in the
United States.
I happen to believe that Nelson Rockefeller is doing a very fine job as Vice
President, and if we can broaden the base of the Republican Party, I think we
have an excellent chance to prevail in 1976.
My maximum effort will be in getting all elements of the Republican Party
on the team, and I think, in the final analysis, we will.
Q. Mr. President, as a followup, sir, can you really broaden that base without
losing the right wing of your party?
THE PRESIDENT. Oh, yes, I think we can. In 1968 and 1972 that was achieved
and we were successful. I think it can be done in 1976.
SENATE FILIBUSTER RULE
[6.] Q. On Rule 22, when Mr. Rockefeller ruled,² had you approved what
he was doing beforehand? Do you agree with the ruling, and do you agree with
the assertion of some of the Senators you met with that it is going to make it
much harder for your program to get by in the Senate with three-fifths rather
than two-thirds?
THE PRESIDENT. I think we have to understand that the Vice President occupies
the position as presiding officer of the United States Senate under the Constitu-
tion. He has a constitutional responsibility in that regard.
I am in the executive branch of the Government. He, in that part of his respon-
sibility, is in the legislative branch. He has the obligation under the Constitu-
tion to make a ruling, to preside in the United States Senate.
I think it is unappropriate or inappropriate, I should say, for me to tell him, as
a member of the legislative branch in that capacity, how he should rule. And
therefore, I did not. I have had a number of discussions with the Vice President
as to my personal philosophy concerning the United States Senate. I happen to
believe that the United States Senate ought to be a somewhat different legisla-
tive body than the House of Representatives, where by a 51-percent vote, a
majority can prevail.
But our Founding Fathers very wisely thought that the Senate ought to be
a little different, and they provided that the Senate should have other rules,
other parliamentary procedures, including the requirement of more than 51
percent to conduct its business under certain circumstances.
2
While presiding in the Senate on February 20, 1975, Vice President Rockefeller ruled that a reform
measure, changing from two-thirds to three-fifths the vote needed to end a filibuster, could be effected
by a simple majority.
326
