May 1
[227]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
agenda for the future, an agenda designed to solve the Nation's problems as
we move into this third century in our great history.
A top item on that agenda is the restoration of a dynamic and effective econ-
omy and a revitalization of our free enterprise system as we know it and we
love it in America.
The Secretary and the staff of the Department of Commerce must play a very
key role in bringing this about. But let's not kid ourselves. Despite the enormous
material progress and individual freedom which we have attained in America
through the free enterprise system, confidence in that system today is consider-
ably lower than it should be.
One reason is inadequate education and a lack of understanding of the free
enterprise system, which has produced for all of our citizens the highest stand-
ard of living in the history of the world. Because it has worked so well for so
long a time, we have tended, unfortunately, to take it for granted. I don't think
we can do that any longer. We must make sure not to lose this great legacy of
freedom, progress, and prosperity through apathy or indifference or even igno-
rance. And that is where this department and this man who is about to be sworn
in as your new Secretary comes in.
Rog Morton, it's up to you and your department, along with the business
community, to get the facts to the people, to resell Americans on the most pro-
ductive and the most responsive economic system the world has ever seen. It
will also be your task, Rog, to help restore—and I am positive you can do it—
the confidence of the business community in government, and the public con-
fidence in the business world. Let me assure you I will work with you in that
vital effort.
Now, as you take over these new and these very vast responsibilities, I want
to wish you the very best, the best success in pursuing these new goals. I am
fully confident that this Department, its new Secretary, have the energy, the
ability and the character and the integrity to do this important job.
It's now my privilege and pleasure to ask Justice Powell to administer the
oath to our new Secretary of Commerce.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:22 p.m. in the
Commerce Department Auditorium. He was in-
troduced by former Secretary of Commerce Fred-
erick B. Dent.
Lewis F. Powell, Jr., Associate Justice of the
Supreme Court, administered the oath of office.
Secretary Morton's response to the President's
remarks is printed in the Weekly Compilation of
Presidential Documents (vol. 11, p. 472).
615
