May 8
[249]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
249
Toasts of the President and Prime Minister Lee Kuan Yew
of Singapore. May 8, 1975
WE ARE here, all of us this evening, to welcome to Washington the very
distinguished Prime Minister and Mrs. Lee of Singapore, and we are delighted
to have both of you here, Mr. Prime Minister and Mrs. Lee.
Regrettably, I have not yet had the opportunity, Mr. Prime Minister, to visit
Singapore, and unfortunately, until this morning, I had never had the op-
portunity to get acquainted with you and to exchange views with you. But ob-
viously, because of your reputation and your country's reputation, I have known
both of you.
And I must say that the reputation of both the country and yourself is car-
ried very far throughout the world. In its brief existence, Mr. Prime Minister, a
decade of independence, Singapore has compiled a tremendous reputation and
record of accomplishment.
Asian traditions have blended in this case very successfully with modern tech-
nology to produce a prosperous and a very progressive society without sac-
rificing a distinctive cultural heritage.
Singapore has built for itself a position of great respect and influence in South-
east Asia and throughout the rest of the world, and I have noticed that in my
many contacts with other leaders in the Commonwealth as well as elsewhere.
As the principal architect of this success, the Prime Minister has become
widely known, not only for what Singapore has accomplished under his leader-
ship but also for his very broad grasp of international relationships.
Over the last decade, he has achieved a very special status among world
leaders for his very thoughtful and his articulate interpretations of world events.
He is a man of vision whose views are very relevant to world issues and whose
advice is widely sought.
When the Prime Minister speaks, we all listen most carefully for good and
sufficient reasons, and we come away from those experiences far wiser.
And I am especially pleased that we have an opportunity to exchange views
with the Prime Minister at this time. We have had a tragedy in Indochina. It is
affecting all of the countries in Southeast Asia, as well as all of us who are
deeply concerned for the future of Southeast Asia and for the cause of freedom.
It has made the problems of Southeast Asia much more difficult. But let me
657
