[90]
February 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
going higher than what my advisers have told me or what I have said per-
sonally. But I just wanted you to get a little touch of my philosophy.
ENERGY RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
[5.] Q. Mr. President, Bob Smith at Bache. ERDA last week awarded a
$350,000 contract to a private company acknowledged to be at least a year
and a half ahead of all U.S. laboratories in the quest to harness nuclear fusion
via high-power lasers. Since fusion is considered by most the ultimate power
source, why the tokenism in this respect when major funding is required?
I take it we are all serious about Project Independence. Can't bureaucratic
redtape and interagency jealousies be set aside so we can get on with a crash
program in this area? [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Let me answer it this way: Some Presidents in the past have
been criticized for getting deeply involved in the awarding or nonawarding of
contracts to individual firms seeking Government business. I am not going to
get involved in one or the other, on awarding or not awarding.
I can tell you this—and then I will ask Frank Zarb, one of your former cohorts
here, to give you an answer—we have increased in the '76 budget the research
and development money for a wide range of energy research and development
from $1.6 billion in the current fiscal year to $2.2 billion in the forthcoming
year.
We have made available, or we have recommended to the Congress, as much
money and probably more than many scientists say we can profitably and intelli-
gently use. But I said we would bend over backwards on the affirmative side
rather than on the restrictive side.
So, I will let Frank answer the specifics. There is money. There will be money
for all legitimate research and development projects and programs in the next
fiscal year's budget. And leave it up to Bob Seamans and the people over at
ERDA to give a technical evaluation and a technical judgment, but we want
good projects pushed, and there is the money for those purposes.
One more and then I had better go. I have to talk to some of Nelson's friends
tonight. [Laughter]
ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES
[6.] Q. I am James Shinn of Philips Appel & Walden. Mr. President, do
you feel that recent announcements by the Central Bank of Iran indicate a policy
that will eventually result in OPEC nations demanding a mixed basket of cur-
246
