[186]
April 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
Yet, we also have the strength to ask tough questions and to seek honest
answers, painful though they may be. And the American people still have the
character and the vision that was tempered in the forge of the Revolution 200
years ago.
Finally, there is our actual military establishment. I have already talked this
morning about some of the hardware and some of the costs. I will just add that
I don't think we have ever had finer, better motivated men and women serving
under the American flag than we have today, and I have met a lot of these
fine young people, and you and I should be very, very proud of them.
They are of the stock which George Washington would have been proud
to command. The commanders of today are proud of them.
George Washington made the point that I have tried to put across today.
"To be prepared for war," George Washington declared, “is one of the most
effective means of preserving peace.”
Peace is what we are really talking about, the building of peace and the
preserving of peace. And only a strong America can build a strong and
durable peace.
And as I conclude, let me say this: As children of the American Revolution,
we owe this both to the patriots who came before us and to the generations who
one day will inherit from us all that we have achieved together in two centuries
of struggle.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:30 a.m. in Con-
stitution Hall. In his opening remarks, he referred
to Mrs. Wakelee R. Smith, president general of the
187
National Society of the Daughters of the American
Revolution.
Remarks at the Annual Republican Party Senate-House
Fundraising Dinner. April 15, 1975
Thank you very, very much, Ted. Mary Louise, Guy Vander Jagt, distinguished
Republican leaders in the House and Senate, Members of the House and Senate,
distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
Really, it is a tremendous privilege and a pleasure for me to be here tonight,
especially with Betty. And both of us thank you from the bottom of our hearts
for your warm welcome and your contributions to what both of us think is a
great cause, the cause of a better America through the kind of political partici-
486
