[166]
April 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
in Congress, and if they happened to be Republicans, well, so be it. Do you plan
to use the same philosophy in campaigning next year and to the extent that you
will openly campaign against Republicans whose philosophies or policies may
contradict yours? And if so, how does this sit with your statement that the
Republican Party is broad enough for all views?
THE PRESIDENT. I expect to be campaigning very hard for my own reelec-
tion-or election in 1976. I will, of course, urge that voters in every State support
those candidates who believe as I do that we have got to hold a line on and
restrain excessive Federal spending.
My enthusiasm for an individual candidate will, of course, depend upon his
strong support for my policy of fiscal restraint, but I am not going to pass judg-
ment today on individuals, whether in one party or another.
Q. Does this mean then that there is a possibility that during that campaign
you could come out openly in support of a Democrat as opposed to a
Republican?
THE PRESIDENT. I believe in the need for the country to have individual Mem-
bers of the House and Senate who believe that these massive Federal spending
programs are bad for America.
And I certainly will look with favor on anyone who believes as I do that we
cannot spend ourself into prosperity, a tax cut approach is a far better way, and
that massive spending programs are not good for America.
CRIME AND LAW ENFORCEMENT
[10.] Q. Mr. President, you now head an Administration which came to
power on a strong law-and-order platform, but the crime rate since 1969 has
done nothing but go up, and the statistics include crimes at the highest levels of
government.
And my question is whether you think it would be fair for the Democrats to
charge that this Administration is soft on crime, or at least is incapable of deal-
ing with the problem.
The President. Well, unfortunately for the country, the crime rate has been
increasing for the last 10 or 15 years, whether it was under a Democratic admin-
istration, under President Kennedy or President Johnson or, except for, I think,
year under the former President, the crime rate has been going up.
1
I don't think it is a partisan issue. It is my judgment that we have to maximize
our effort—the Federal Government, State government, and local units of gov-
ernment—to try and have proper enforcement of the law, which includes the
prosecution of people who violate the law.
418
