[90]
February 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. Well, first, it is my judgment—and it is the opinion of the
advisers that I have-that we aren't going to have an unemployment figure of
the magnitude to which you refer. As a matter of fact, I said in my remarks that
by the end of the year, it is my judgment that unemployment increases will have
terminated and will be starting in a more optimistic direction.
It seems to me with the assumption that I have made that it shouldn't deter me
from proceeding with the energy program that I have recommended. We are
kind of locked in for the moment with the Congress, with me offering a plan
and Congress trying to take away the pressure that I can exert.
I think before we are through, I think it is obvious there will have to be some
getting together between the Congress and myself, and I am open to their rec-
ommendations. But I have to-because the problem is so severe, the potential
danger is so great-must move forward.
As I said during my remarks, for 3 years, to my memory, we have had talk and
no action. And so I intend to push. I think it is right, and I think we will get a
solution without interfering with the recovery of the economy.
TAX PROGRAM
[3.] Q. Mr. President, Carter Randall, Equitable Trust. You yourself have
said that in relations with Congress, that compromise is probably going to have
to be the answer. In your tax program, wherein lies compromise? Is it the
magnitude, the timing, the allocation, or what?
THE PRESIDENT. As I have indicated, I proposed a $12 billion tax rebate to
individuals predicated on their 1974 tax payments, which amounts to about a 12-
percent rebate with a $1,000 cap.
In the business area, I recommended a $4 billion tax reduction with a 1-year
increase in investment tax credits from 4 percent to 12 percent for utilities and
from 7 to 12 for businesses generally. I think that is a good balance.
The House Committee on Ways and Means has bought a good bit of what I
have recommended, but not entirely or not precisely. They have taken half of $16
billion personal income tax change and recommended that it be done the way I
propose, with a $200 cap. I think a $200 cap is too low. I don't think it will have
the kind of stimulant that I think is needed in the economy.
They have taken the other half of the $16 billion on personal income tax reduc-
tion and jiggled the withholding for 1975. I don't think that has any immediate
stimulant to the economy. It is reflected over the next 7 months providing they
get it passed within the next few months.
Then of course, that is only the committee recommendation. The House can
244
