[75]
February 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
• Failed to correct other deficiencies that had been pointed out in executive
branch communications concerning the bill.
The energy program that I outlined in my State of the Union Message con-
templates the doubling of our Nation's coal production by 1985. Within the
next ten years my program envisions opening 250 major new coal mines the
majority of which must be surface mines, and the construction of approximately
150 new coal fired electric generating plants. I believe that we can achieve
these goals and still meet reasonable environmental protection standards.
I have again reviewed S. 425 as it passed the 93rd Congress (which has been
reintroduced in the 94th Congress as S. 7 and H.R. 25) to identify those pro-
visions of the bill where changes are critical to overcome the objections which
led to my disapproval last December. I have also identified a number of pro-
visions of the bill where changes are needed to reduce further the potential for
unnecessary production impact and to make the legislation more workable and
effective. These few but important changes will go a long way toward achieving
precise and balanced legislation. The changes are summarized in the first en-
closure to this letter and are incorporated in the enclosed draft bill.
With the exception of the changes described in the first enclosure, the bill
follows S. 425.
I believe that surface mining legislation must be reconsidered in the context
of our current national needs. I urge the Congress to consider the enclosed bill
carefully and pass it promptly.
Sincerely,
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters addressed
to the Honorable Carl Albert, Speaker of the
House of Representatives, and the Honorable
GERALD R. FORD
Nelson A. Rockefeller, President of the Senate. The
summary of the proposed legislation was included
as part of the release.
76
Statement on Signing an Executive Order Concerning Federal
Labor-Management Relations in the Federal Service.
February 6, 1975
I SIGNED today an Executive order [11838] putting into effect recent recom-
mendations of the Federal Labor Relations Council, to improve Federal labor-
management relations. This Executive order permits consolidation of many
200
