[260]
May 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
The review of our policies in the Middle East, which I initiated last month,
will not be completed until later this summer. I have, therefore, also omitted
specific requests for assistance to the four major Middle Eastern aid recipients
until this review is completed.
With this bill, the Congress is now in a position to begin consideration of
those elements of our foreign aid programs on which I have made firm recom-
mendations. The other specifics will be transmitted as soon as our reviews per-
mit. I urge that the Congress consider and enact this legislation.
Sincerely,
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters addressed to
the Honorable Carl Albert, Speaker of the House of
Representatives, and the Honorable Nelson A. Rock-
GERALD R. FORD
efeller, President of the Senate. The text and an
analysis of the draft legislation were included as
part of the release.
261
Toasts of the President and the Shah of Iran.
May 15, 1975
Your Imperial Majesties, the Shahanshah and Shahbanou:
I warmly welcome the Imperial Majesties to the White House this evening,
and I am sure by the reception that has been indicated here, everybody joins me
on this wonderful occasion.
Your visit here is, of course, a tribute to the long legacy of a very close and
very cooperative tie between Iran and the United States, and I hope, on the other
hand, that you will think upon this as a visit between old friends.
I am the seventh President, Your Imperial Majesty, to have met with you on
such an occasion. The facts speak volumes for the continuity and the duration
of our bilateral relations and the importance that we attach to the broadening
and the deepening of those ties and those interests of peace and progress
throughout the world. These are objectives to which the United States remains
deeply committed. These objectives Iran shares with us.
Our nations have thus brought together a very unique relationship, working
together cooperatively for the past several decades on the basis of a mutual
respect, and I am looking forward to continuing this great tradition with your-
self, and this country and your country. And it is, as I see it, a living and a
growing tradition.
674
