June 16
[334]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
tion, a fund which will be used to further German-American exchanges, con-
ferences, contacts across the broad spectrum of our relations. I think this fund
symbolizes anew the very close relationship between our peoples.
In this spirit, Mr. President, I raise my glass and welcome you to our country.
Mr. President.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:15 p.m. in the
State Dining Room at the White House.
President Scheel responded in German. The trans-
lated text of his response follows:
Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen:
I am glad to be visiting the United States just at a
time when the whole country is preparing for the
great jubilee of its history, the Bicentennial. One
could reflect at length on whether the United States
is an old or a young country. It is no secret that
there is a rather uncritical school of thought in
Europe that arrogantly thinks it can dismiss the
United States, despite its 200 years, as a "country
without a history." True, in my country, too, we
have cities and towns that were a thousand years old
when America gained its independence, but there is
no merit in age alone. The tortoise reaches a ripe.
old age, but it is not the most noble of creatures.
And how old is the Federal Republic of Germany?
It is 26.
And this brings me to the main point: The United
States is not simply 200 years old. In an unbroken
historical tradition, it has been a liberal republic
from its very beginning. Two hundred years of un-
interrupted republican democratic tradition-where
else in the world is there a republic which for two
centuries has made liberty and equality for all citi-
zens its law of life, which has not even shirked a
civil war in order to remain true to the ideals upon
which it entered world history? And those ideals are
today still the most important, the most topical, and
the most vital of all.
Europe is who would doubt it-the mother of
the United States. But the United States is-and who
could doubt that the mother of European
democracy.
Over the centuries, many German immigrants
have come to this country. We Germans were grati-
fied at the result of a public opinion survey carried
out by your Bureau of the Census. Of the 205 mil-
lion questioned, 30 million said their heritage was
Anglo-Saxon, but 25 million, the next largest group,
said their heritage was German. They had left their
native country because they wanted to escape reli-
gious oppression, because economic necessity left
them no choice, because the accelerating process of
industrialization had uprooted them, or because they
were persecuted on political grounds.
Well, they all quickly became Americans, even
though many of them still cherished their native
country. But their loyalty they gave unshakably to the
land whose citizens they were proud to be.
Many of them returned to our country as Ameri-
can soldiers after the war and brought with them,
together with their fellow citizens, the message of
the free America. We hungrily threw ourselves upon
everything that came from the other side of the
Atlantic. Our writers were inspired by William
Faulkner and Ernest Hemingway, our young archi-
tects stood in awe at the tremendous strides made
in the meantime by architecture in America. Our
newspapers modeled themselves upon their Ameri-
can counterparts, and young Germans fell for jazz.
In short, one cannot imagine the cultural life of our
country without the stimuli it received from this
country.
Today, Mr. President, our two countries are
closely linked with each other, but those ties are
based not only on the identity of our political, eco-
nomic, and security interests but on the interplay of
cultural and historical developments that have been
of such great importance to both countries. History
shows us the way to each other.
And that is why the American President's appeal
to us to join in the celebrations has met with a
broad-based response in the Federal Republic of
Germany. It gives me great pleasure, Mr. President,
to be able to announce on this festive occasion some
of the contributions the Federal Government will
be making on the occasion of your jubilee year.
Those contributions are intended to symbolize the
close relationship between our two countries, to
help make both peoples even more conscious of its
many facets.
We have therefore established a fund which will
be known as the John J. McCloy Fund for German-
American Exchanges. The fund will enable young
politicians, journalists, and representatives of trade
unions and employers organizations to undertake
information trips and participate in German-Ameri-
can seminars. There was hardly any need to search
for a name of the fund because John J. McCloy-
whom I am delighted to see with us here tonight-
has become a symbol of German-American friend-
ship and cooperation over the past 30 years.
In the purely academic sphere, the New School for
Social Research in New York will be endowed by the
Federal Government with a new chair. The New
School is a university founded by German emigrants,
and the years of close cooperation with the school
825
