February 18
[96]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Let us demonstrate our confidence in our beloved Nation and a future that will
flow from the glory of the past.
When I think of the things right about America, I think of this order with
its sense of duty to country, its esteem for brotherhood and traditional values,
its spiritual high principles, and its humble acceptance of God as the Supreme
Being.
Today we honor our first President, who was also our first Masonic President.
In a letter in 1798 to the Grand Lodge of Maryland, Washington used some
words that are now especially appropriate. Washington told the order that he
"conceived it to be the indispensable duty of every American . . . to come
forward in support of the government of his choice, and to give all the aid in
his power towards maintaining that independence which we have so dearly
purchased."
Such involvement by every American is as essential today as it was in George
Washington's day.
I do express to all of you my deepest thanks for this tribute, and I ask that we
resolve together to honor George Washington and America by perpetuating the
national heritage he engendered through the principles which guide our order—
friendship, morality, and brotherly love.
I thank you very, very kindly.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12 noon at the unveil-
ing of the Gerald R. Ford Masonic Medallion. In his
opening remarks, he referred to Raymond Ellis,
president, and Marvin Fowler, executive secretary of
the memorial.
96
Letter to the Speaker of the House and the President of the
Senate Transmitting Proposed Appropriations Legislation for
the United States Arms Control and Disarmament Agency.
February 18, 1975
I TRANSMIT herewith for consideration of the Congress proposed legislation
to extend the appropriation authorization for the Arms Control and Disarma-
ment Agency, together with a letter from the Director of the Agency in support
of this legislation.
The negotiation of effective arms control arrangements, especially in the area
of strategic arms, continues to be a priority objective of this Administration. To
that end, the Strategic Arms Limitation Talks will continue in Geneva with a
261
