[138]
March 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
They may have to go beyond that, depending on certain circumstances, but we
intend to make as full a disclosure as is possible without jeopardizing America's
national security.
REVENUE SHARING
[16.] Q. Mr. President, tonight you are meeting with several Midwestern
Governors. In light of some sagging revenues at State and local levels and your
own budget tightening, what can you tell them about your long-range plans for
return of the Federal dollar both to State and municipalities-revenue sharing
and this type of thing?
THE PRESIDENT. In my State of the Union Message and in the Budget Mes-
sage, I indicated that I was recommending an extension of the general revenue
sharing program with the annual add-on that takes care of the inflation impact
as far as the State and local units of government are concerned. So, I am on
record now urging the Congress to extend the existing general revenue sharing
program.
Q. Have the dollar amounts that you have been able to expend been affected
by the current events?
The President. It is my best recollection that the amount we recommended
for the first year of the extended program is close to $7 billion a year, which is
a substantial increase over the amount that was used in the first year of the
present program.
It is a very, I think, generous proposal. It does crank in the inflation factor.
And if the Congress goes along, I think it will be materially beneficial to the
States and local units of government.
GASOLINE TAX
[17.] Q. Mr. President, we have not asked you about the gasoline tax lately.
This afternoon or this morning, on Air Force One, what Mr. Zarb said led me
to believe there may be a softening of the Administration's attitude. Are you
still willing to stand by your earlier statement that you will veto any gasoline
tax?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I could not help but notice over the weekend 102
Democrats joined in a statement in the House of Representatives condemning
a gasoline tax.
I think a gasoline tax of the magnitude that several have proposed is not the
right approach, and I do not think the Congress will approve it. I think the
energy crisis—the energy program can be best implemented by the proposal I
submitted in January. And I hope that in the negotiations between Mr. Zarb
370
