[236]
May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
itself is a stern taskmaster,” he recalled. "The best way to get along with either
is to learn all you can, then do your best, and don't worry-especially about
things over which you have no control."
So, this great ship is a symbol of a great sea commander and a great American,
one whose common virtues—magnified by the stern demands of duty-turned
defeat into victory and made the broad Pacific again worthy of its name.
It is my determination to keep it that way, the way all oceans and all con-
tinents ought to be. But Fleet Admiral Nimitz and this fine ship both tell us
that controlled strength is the sure guarantor of peace. Let us all-and par-
ticularly those who serve in the United States Ship Nimitz, now and hereafter—
rededicate ourselves to this principle and to unstinting service to our country and
to its people.
Good afternoon, and Godspeed.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:44 a.m. at Pier 12
at the Norfolk Naval Air Station. In his opening
remarks, he referred to J. William Middendorf II,
Secretary of the Navy; Adm. James L. Holloway
III, Chief of Naval Operations; Adm. Ralph W.
Cousins, Commander in Chief, U.S. Atlantic Fleet;
Capt. Bryan W. Compton, Jr., commanding officer
of the U.S.S. Nimitz; and Mrs. Catherine Lay,
daughter of Fleet Admiral Nimitz.
237
Remarks at the Annual Dinner of the White House
Correspondents Association. May 3, 1975
Thank you very much, Helen-Madam President. Members and guests of the
White House Correspondents Association:
Let me say to Danny, I am deeply grateful for a fine evening, and to Marlo
as well. We will have to work a little on her, I think, Danny. [Laughter]
But let me say I do appreciate the rather gentle and kind introduction, because
Helen, as all of you know, has a well-earned reputation for speaking her own
mind. I can remember several years ago, when I was still a Congressman, Helen
and I were walking down Pennsylvania Avenue when we passed one of those
scales that gives you your weight as well as your fortune—and all for a penny.
Helen said, “Well, why don't you try it. I might get a scoop.” So, I got on the
scale, put in a penny, a card came out that said, "You are handsome, debonair,
sophisticated, a born leader of men, a silver-tongued orator, and some day you
will make your own mark in history." Helen leaned over, looked at the card
and said, "It has your weight wrong, too." [Laughter]
Really, it's a great pleasure to be here, and without further delay let me con-
634
