[152]
March 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
of the Nation to chance. If we are to build the America of tomorrow, we must
begin work today. It is said that great people have wills and feeble ones wishes.
We Americans have always prided ourselves on our will to win and on our
ingenuity. As a people of action, we have made our dreams come true.
I believe we have the will, the resources, and the leadership to achieve energy
independence. And I call upon all of you to join in this great effort. To pledge
less than a united effort would be unworthy of us. I know you will do your best.
I will do mine.
NOTE: The President spoke following a reception
and dinner which began at approximately 6:30 p.m.
in the State Dining Room at the White House. Earlier
in the day, the labor and management representa-
tives of the coal and coal-related industries had at-
tended a White House briefing by Administration
officials.
153
Remarks Upon Secretary of State Kissinger's Return From the
Middle East. March 23, 1975
Mr. Secretary:
It is a great privilege for me to welcome you back on an extraordinarily dif-
ficult mission on behalf of the United States and the problems that are in the
Middle East.
I know that you made a maximum effort. Unfortunately, for reasons beyond
our control, it did not turn out the way we wanted it.
But let me say, the United States will continue to emphasize our desire to
achieve a lasting peace in the Middle East by working with one country, other
countries, and all countries.
It is in the national, as well as in the international interest that we do every-
thing we can with the emphasis on peace. Although we have―on a temporary
basis, hopefully—not achieved all that we had desired, I continue to be an
optimist, that the good judgment, the wise decisions of all parties will result in
the ultimate objective of peace in the Middle East and its ramifications on a
worldwide basis.
Henry, would you like to add anything?
SECRETARY KISSINGER. Mr. President, I very much appreciate your greeting me
here, as you sent me off from here.
The necessities that produced the mission continue, and the need for a lasting
peace in the Middle East remains.
396
