[403]
July 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
And I can assure Dr. Burns and his associates and all that work in this great
organization that their independence will be respected, because to do other-
wise, I think, would open us to honest and proper criticism that their role is
being undercut in the protection of our economy and all of our people.
I am confident that Philip Jackson will be a tremendous asset to this most
important organization, and I am delighted to have an opportunity of coming
here and coming to the-second floor, is it, Arthur?—without the use of an
elevator. [Laughter] It shows that at my advanced age you can still walk up
stairs.
But let me say it is wonderful to be here, and I thank you, Arthur, for the
invitation and the chance to participate in this very fine occasion. And now I
understand, Arthur, you are to perform the function of actually swearing in the
Governor-designate, and I am delighted to be a spectator on this occasion.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:57 p.m. in the Fed-
eral Reserve Board Room at the headquarters of the
Federal Reserve System. Arthur F. Burns, Chairman
of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve
System, administered the oath of office.
Mr. Jackson's response to the President's remarks
is printed in the Weekly Compilation of Presidential
Documents (vol. 11, p. 749).
404
Letter to President Aristides Pereira on United States
Recognition of the Republic of Cape Verde. July 14, 1975
[Dated July 5, 1975. Released July 14, 1975]
Dear Mr. President:
The American people join me in extending congratulations and best wishes
to you and the people of the Republic of Cape Verde on the occasion of your
independence. In this regard, I am pleased to inform you that the United States
Government extends recognition to Cape Verde.
I a am aware of the serious drought which has affected the islands for the past
eight years. I know that this situation must be a matter of great concern as your
government assumes the responsibilities for the well-being of your people. I am
hopeful that the steps already taken by the United States to provide humani-
tarian aid and technical assistance to Cape Verde will help alleviate the current
hardship and provide a base for economic development and future prosperity.
As the historic ties of friendship and cooperation between the peoples of the
United States and Cape Verde grow and strengthen, I look forward to the
992
