July 12
[397]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
say with great emphasis, I am dedicated to turning around the trend of deteriora-
tion and despair, of crime and unemployment, of pollution and bad housing,
and of drugs and premature death. But I am also dedicated to the conviction
that local problems must, in the final analysis, be solved by local people. The
Federal Government has helped and will continue to help.
Frankly, that is why I came to Chicago today to meet you. We in Washington
can learn a great deal from you. Many of you have overcome a deprived en-
vironment and economic limitations. You succeeded because you are rich in
human capacities and have the love of families who care. This auditorium is
filled with individual success stories. I don't see any reason whatsoever to worry
about the class of 1975 at CSU.
But I am concerned about the future of some other young Americans who
are today neither in school nor working at jobs. Tragically, they are on the
streets. Some have lost hope and motivation to the extent that they no longer
are even looking for work or education. Some, tragically, have police records.
Society has begun to think of them as records and public enemies rather than
as human beings in trouble. Some are sick with addiction to drugs because they
are so empty inside, so devoid of hope that they fill themselves with artificial
illusions of contentment.
So, I challenge today's graduates to use your new skills to help the people
who are not in this hall today. You are uniquely equipped. I challenge the
graduates in education to teach young people how to read and how to write. I
challenge the graduates in the liberal arts to stimulate the mind and to inspire
the spirit. I challenge the graduates in corrections and law enforcement to
counsel and to motivate individuals from the path or paths of destruction of
themselves and others. I challenge the business and administration graduates to
conceive of new jobs that are more interesting, challenging, and rewarding. I
challenge all graduates to set an example that gives hope to the millions who
have not yet made it.
You have demonstrated by your own achievements and accomplishments that
your determination can make a significant difference. You might have been
part of the problem, but now you are part of the pride, and I congratulate you.
CSU has shown that a new tradition can emerge from problem areas. Your
president, Dr. Alexander, made CSU a school that demands performance of its
students. He made CSU a school where you shape up or ship out.
I agree with the CSU philosophy. You kill pride if students are passed merely
because they come from disadvantaged backgrounds. That is no favor. It is a
disservice. You sacrifice for an education, and consequently, you are entitled to
981
