[195]
April 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
Since the early 1960's-about 10 years ago—the number of Federal domestic
assistance programs has grown from about 200 to more than 1,000 today. And
there has been a massive increase in the country's bureaucracy on the Federal,
State, as well as local level, from about 6 million employees in 1950 to 14 million
today.
Now, if we continue these trends at anywhere near their present rate of
growth, more than twice that of the gross national product, the result will be
this: In two decades, just 20 years, governments—and I include all govern-
ments-would need to collect in taxes more than half of our GNP to meet
these commitments.
Almost three-fourths of all spending is currently in a category called—and
I put this in quotes-"uncontrollable." That is a code word that is used in Wash-
ington now for failure to do something. [Laughter]
I categorically, speaking for myself, reject the view that Federal spending is
uncontrollable and that we must add each year to the national debt. Federal
spending and I spent some 16 years on the Committee on Appropriations in
the House of Representatives, so I have some knowledge about the process as
well as the figures-Federal spending is controllable, and there are two levers
of such control.
The first is with the American people. They can say no to those spreading
the notion that it is possible to get something for nothing. Or the American
people, on the other hand, can say yes to those of us who are trying to curb the
increasing burden that gets heavier every year, the burden of taxation, and who
want to restore fiscal responsibility.
The second lever is the exercise of leadership by the President, by the Con-
gress in the control of Federal spending. As President, I have personally drawn
the line-and some of you may have seen the program the other day when I
actually drew a line—but the Congress, unfortunately, is threatening to go far
beyond that line.
For example, the House of Representatives just passed—2 days ago as a matter
of fact—its first regular appropriation bill for fiscal year 1976. It amounted to
$1 billion more than my request of $6.2 billion for the multitude of federally
supported aid-to-education programs. I recommended 6.2 and the House of
Representatives added $1 billion to it. Apparently, the American people must
educate the Congress.
The Nation now faces new Congressional multibillion dollar initiatives. How
much are the American people willing to tax themselves to pay for these new
proposals, and for how long?
514
