June 19
[341]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
young people represents a large part of crime in general. The 1973 statistics
indicate that 45 percent of persons arrested for all crimes are under 18 years of
age. Whatever the difficulty, we must continue our efforts to rehabilitate
offenders, especially youthful offenders. To do less would be to write off great
numbers of young people as unsalvageable before they have even come of age.
I have directed the Attorney General, as Chairman of the Cabinet Committee
on Crime Prevention and Rehabilitation, to work in close cooperation with the
Secretary of Labor, the Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare and other
concerned agencies of the Executive Branch to ensure that the Federal govern-
ment is making the best possible use of its resources in this crucial area.
Whatever the corrections system might accomplish in rehabilitating offenders
while they are in prison will be lost if the individual leaves prison and cannot
find a job, simply because he has been convicted of a crime. I urge employers to
keep an open mind on the hiring of persons formerly convicted of crimes. The
U.S. Civil Service Commission currently administers a program designed to
prevent Federal employers from unjustly discriminating against ex-felons. I am
directing the Commission to review this program to ensure that it is accom-
plishing its objectives. I am also calling on the National Governors Conference
to consider steps the States can take to eliminate unjustified discriminatory
practices. Giving ex-offenders who have paid their penalty and seek to “go
straight" a fair shake in the job market can be an effective means of reducing
crime and improving our criminal justice system.
In addition to this general effort to reform and improve the criminal justice
system, the Federal law should be specifically revised to take into greater
account the needs of victims of crime. They, as well as the general public, must
be made aware that the government will not neglect the law-abiding citizens
whose cooperation and efforts are crucial to the effectiveness of law enforcement.
I urge the Congress to pass legislation to meet the uncompensated economic
losses of victims of Federal crimes who suffer personal injury. In order to pro-
mote the concept of restitution within the criminal law, the monetary benefits
should come from a fund consisting of fines paid by convicted Federal offenders.
II. BETTER LAWS AND ENFORCEMENT
As I pointed out initially, except in limited circumstances, street crime is a
state and local law enforcement responsibility. There is a dimension to this
problem, however, that cannot be adequately dealt with on just the state and
local levels. Criminals with handguns have played a key role in the rise of
847
