June 3
[305]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
I look out on the athletic field, and it brings back many wonderful memories.
I wasn't good enough to play with all of you good, young athletes, but neverthe-
less, what you learn on that athletic field and what you learn in the fine school
and what you learn from the leaders in your school and in your community will
be invaluable to you as you mature, as you graduate and become active in
vigorous parts of our society-whether in Europe or in the United States or
elsewhere.
I thank you for being so many of you, for the warm welcome and the wonder-
ful goodby. And I thank all of you for what you are doing for our country, your
country, and the world as a whole.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:54 p.m. at the
athletic field of the Oratorio di San Pietro, greeting
American Embassy personnel and dependents, North
American College faculty and students, and Amer-
ican clergy in Rome.
In his opening remarks, the President referred to
John A. Volpe, U.S. Ambassador to Italy, and
Archbishop Emanuele Clarizio, president of the
Oratorio di San Pietro.
The President had stopped at the Oratorio di San
Pietro following a visit with Pope Paul VI in the
Library of the Papal Apartments in Vatican City.
305
Remarks on Departure From Italy.
June 3, 1975
President Leone, Mr. Prime Minister, Your Excellencies:
Upon our departure from Italy, Mrs. Ford and I wish to express our profound
gratitude to President and Mrs. Leone, to Prime Minister and Mrs. Moro, and
to the Italian Government and the Italian people for the wonderful reception
accorded us on this occasion and this visit.
The warmth with which we have been received, the cordial and productive
discussions that I have had with your highest leaders, and the friendship and
good will expressed everywhere for the United States have made this a
memorable experience for all of us.
For over a quarter of a century, Italy and the United States have had a remark-
able identity of purpose in working as democracies with shared ideals toward the
goals of an enduring peace and prosperity for our people.
We have worked together as allies in NATO to preserve peace and to insure
stability in Europe and in the Mediterranean. We can take satisfaction in the
successes we have achieved.
As a result of my many meetings here in Rome, I am confident that the United
767
