June 24
[351]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
7 percent interest rates and $1,000 down-payment grants. Since there appears to
have been no consensus in favor of any one of these new subsidies, the bill
adopts all of them in the hope that something will work.
The full implementation of these new subsidies, together with other provi-
sions of the bill, would add over $1 billion to the fiscal 1976 deficit and ultimately
cost more than $2 billion. An addition to the budget of this magnitude to
benefit a few home-buyers is inequitable as well as costly.
It is most important to housing that we maintain a firm line against ill-
considered spending that adds to the growing deficit and necessitates Federal
government borrowing which tends to drive up interest rates and depress hous-
ing construction. I believe that budgetary restraint is a key element in our effort
to instill the kind of consumer confidence in the future that is essential to a
vigorous housing market.
Proponents of H.R. 4485 have argued that the budgetary costs of this bill
would be outweighed by stimulating an upturn in housing starts, jobs and tax
revenues. But critical defects in the bill concerning its relative cost, impact, tim-
ing and long-term implications will prevent it from achieving these objectives.
First, the levels of subsidy provided are excessively deep and costly. Under
H.R. 4485, mortgages would be heavily subsidized so that they could bear lower
interest rates than any previously available to other home-owners during the
last ten years. These deep subsidies would require substantial Federal outlays.
Moreover, experience demonstrates that a strong and healthy housing industry
can be maintained without the deep subsidies contained in this bill.
Second, the bill would not work as intended even if it could be immediately
implemented. Although supporters of H.R. 4485 have claimed that it would
produce hundreds of thousands of additional housing units, evaluation by HUD
and OMB does not suggest that the bill would have any impact of this magni-
tude or that the units produced would necessarily be additional to those that
would be produced in the absence of such large subsidies. Those most likely
to be influenced to buy under the bill would be families near the top of the
eligibility range. These same families would be most apt to buy even without
subsidy assistance on the scale proposed.
Third, because the bill could not be immediately implemented, it would
actually impede an early recovery in housing starts. The subsidies which would
be authorized include new approaches that have never been tried before. To
make this assistance available, it would not only be necessary to secure appro-
priations and write regulations, but also to prepare a variety of new forms,
establish procedures and familiarize government, lender and builder personnel
861
