[142]
March 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
Your personal contributions in this regard have been significant, and you have
my heartfelt gratitude.
Now as you depart, I hope you will always look back with a special sense of
satisfaction on your years with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission.
You have established a record of accomplishment in which you can take pride,
and you leave with my best wishes for every success and happiness in the years
ahead.
Sincerely,
GERALD R. FORD
[The Honorable William A. Carey, General Counsel, Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, 1800 G
Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20506]
NOTE: Mr. Carey's letter of resignation, dated
March 17, 1975, read as follows:
My dear Mr. President:
I hereby offer my resignation as General Counsel
of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
effective upon delivery of this letter to you.
It has been a privilege for me to serve in this
capacity and to develop the legal staff of the
Commission to its present size and to its present
outstanding capabilities. At this time I have com-
pleted the responsibilities for recruiting a much
enlarged staff of lawyers and establishing the poli-
cies and procedures to carry out the enforcement
powers of the Commission on a broad scale.
The reason I am resigning now, and without
delay, is to encourage immediate steps on the part
of the Administration which will strengthen the
composition of the Commission and increase the
effectiveness of its work.
I wish to express my faith in the future of the
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission be-
cause of your strong desire to advance the purposes
for which it was created.
Sincerely,
WILLIAM A. CAREY
General Counsel
[The Honorable Gerald R. Ford, The White House,
Washington, D.C. 20500]
143
Letter to the Speaker of the House and the President of the Senate
Transmitting Proposed Legislation To Place a Ceiling on
Federal Pay and Benefits Increases. March 19, 1975
I AM transmitting herewith a set of legislative proposals which would place a
temporary 5 percent ceiling on pay increases for Federal employees and in
benefit payments to individuals that are connected by law to consumer prices.
These proposals are an integral part of the economic, fiscal, and energy pro-
gram that I outlined to the Congress in my State of the Union Address on
January 15, 1975. As we move forward with tax reductions to revitalize the
economy, with energy conservation and self-reliance measures, and with sub-
stantially expanded aid to the unemployed, it is essential that we restrain the
overall growth of Federal expenditures. In the interest of the long-run as well
376
