February 13
[91]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
concerned with the problems of recession and inflation, unemployment, and
energy shortages. I would be even more concerned if we were to have a 94th
Congress burying its head in the domestic sands like an ostrich, while ex-
pensive oil flows into America and expensive dollars flow out.
As I was working on my remarks for tonight, I asked myself this ques-
tion: What has changed since the days of Arthur Vandenberg? Yes, during
the latter years of my service in the Congress, severe strains developed between
the legislative and executive branches over Southeast Asian policies of two
administrations, one Democrat and one Republican.
Yes, indeed, America has experienced a series of shocks, domestic and for-
eign, dating back to the assassination of President Kennedy. We have new
preoccupations, we have new perceptions, new priorities, and hopefully, some
new directions. Nevertheless, we need nonpartisanship in foreign affairs today
more than we have ever needed it in the history of this America. We need
more, not less credibility and continuity; we need more, not less confidence in
the honest motives and high patriotic concerns of one another.
That is not to say that I wish the Congress would keep out of foreign affairs,
and that I want to run everything beyond the water's edge in my own way
without legislative interference. Under the Constitution, the Congress has a
fundamental responsibility in the shaping of all broad matters of public policy,
both foreign and domestic. Nobody knows that better than I do. But while
the Congress together with the President makes foreign policy, only the Execu-
tive can execute it.
History is quite interesting. For the first 11 years of our national indepen-
dence, we experimented with a government by legislative committee-the Con-
tinental Congress, under the Articles of Confederation. There was a President
of the Congress, but no President of the country. It is a wonder, as a matter
of fact, that General Washington was able to win the war.
Once our national independence was recognized, Washington and the other
Founding Fathers wasted no time in writing a new Constitution in which they
set aside their fears of a tyrannical king or a too-powerful prime minister and
vested the executive authority or power in a President of the United States of
America.
The new Constitution gave the Chief Executive command of the Armed
Forces raised by the Congress and the power to negotiate treaties and to receive
and to appoint Ambassadors with the advice and consent of the Senate.
Now clearly, the Constitution contemplates a political partnership beyond
the water's edge, and it clearly does not contemplate the day-to-day conduct of
251
