June 26
[356]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
If we had an oil embargo today, we would be worse off, because Congress has
not enacted as I recommended or they have not enacted something that they
have proposed.
So, in this case there has to be some push on the Congress from me, from the
American people, to get off dead center and enact an energy program. Other-
wise, we will be more and more vulnerable to foreign sources, and we can't
afford that from the point of view of our country's national security, our coun-
try's economic prosperity.
And therefore, as you go back home and have an opportunity to talk to
others, please get your friends, as well as yourselves, to get Congress to move
ahead in the field of energy, either on the program that I have recommended or
some program that they will put together. We cannot condone a lack of action
on the part of the Congress in the field of energy.
This is a little different problem from the veto problem that I discussed earlier,
but it is all part of how our Government works. In each case, what is being done
in the case of the vetoes and better legislation, that is part of our Constitution.
In the case of no action, that is the prerogative of the Congress. I think it is
wrong where they don't do anything. But at least that is their prerogative.
And the way to get the Congress to move-and I spent 25 years there, so I
know a little bit about how the Congress either works or does not work, and I
know that if people back in their respective districts or respective States say,
“Move,” the Members of Congress will act, and act, I think, in most cases,
responsibly.
Well, this is a great opportunity for me to talk to not only leaders in your own
right but prospective leaders in the future.
Good luck, and I am confident, after most of us who are here now are out of
the picture, we can look and say, those young governors that came down to
Washington in this program are doing a better job than we did.
Good luck, and the very best to you.
Thank you.
GREGORY ROSE. Mr. President, it is my privilege and honor, being Youth
Governor from Michigan, to present you at this time a card and certificate of
your membership in the National Society of YMCA Youth Governors, of which
we are all members, of which there are about 500 members, starting in 1962,
throughout the United States.
And as a small symbol of our appreciation, we would like to present you this
book "Mankind and the Turning Point," which we would appreciate your
reading. [Laughter]
881
