[412]
July 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. Colonel, I think you and the other four have done very,
very well so far, and may I congratulate you and your associates on this great
achievement.
Now, Mr. Slayton, Deke, you have had a very, very long record of distin-
guished service preparing other astronaut crews for various space missions, and
we are extremely pleased to see you on the crew of the first international manned
space flight. As the world's oldest space rookie, do you have any advice for
young people who hope to fly on future space missions?
Deke, did you have a chance to hear my question?
DONALD K. SLAYTON. No, sir, Mr. President, unfortunately.
THE PRESIDENT. Can I repeat it?
MR. SLAYTON. Tom just repeated it for me, sir.
Well, yes, I have a lot of advice for young people, but I guess probably one
of the most important bits is to, number one, decide what you really want to do
and then, secondly, never give up until you have done it.
The President. Well, you are a darn good example, Deke, of never giving
up and continuing, and I know it is a great feeling of success from your point
of view to have made this flight and to be on board with your four associates.
MR. SLAYTON. Yes, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. Vance Brand, I know that you are still in the Apollo and
holding the fort there. It has been my observation that the crews on both sides
have worked very hard to learn either Russian on the one hand or English on the
other. Has this training period, which is so important, stood the test in the
complicated procedures that all of you must execute in this very delicate mission?
VANCE BRAND. Mr. President, I believe it really has. I think in a way our proj-
ect and, in particular, the training that we have undergone has been sort of a
model for future similar projects.
I think it has been a real pleasant experience to work on learning Russian and
to be able to work with the cosmonauts, and I think we will have some ideas
that would probably help people in the future on similar paths.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much, Vance.
I might like to say a word or two to Valery Kubasov, the other member of
the cosmonaut crew. I might say to him, as well as Colonel Leonov, I remember
both of you on that enjoyable Saturday last September when both crews visited
the White House and joined me in a picnic over in Virginia. We flew from the
White House over to this picnic just across the river. We had some crab special-
ties that I enjoyed, and I think you did.
1002
