April 15
[186]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Finally, it is said that we are unlikely to be attacked in any event. Détente,
according to this kind of reasoning, guarantees that future conflicts will be
nonviolent ones, which may be settled by negotiation.
It is my judgment that these arguments ignore a basic fact of international
politics, one that has been proven repeatedly throughout history: National
interest can be guarded only by national strength. In a conflict-ridden world,
national strength, in the broadest sense, must be supported by military strength.
It is often overlooked that détente—the process of reducing tensions with
the U.S.S.R.—has been possible only because of U.S. strength and U.S. resolve.
It was after a prolonged period of cold war testing and confrontation, during
which the United States and the rest of the Western World stood fast, that it
became possible to move forward with the U.S.S.R. in negotiations aimed at
reducing the chances for grave miscalculations and reducing the risk of nuclear
war. In these negotiations, we have safeguarded our vital defense interests. To
weaken our defenses is to weaken one of the foundations of détente.
A posture of deliberate weakness is most dangerous when the worldwide
military balance threatens to deteriorate. But at any time, weakness would be
folly for the United States, a great nation with interests spanning the globe.
If we were to cut ourselves back to such a weak posture, as some recommend,
we would soon find ourselves paying an unacceptable price. We cannot shrink
our economy back to pre-1939 dimensions. We cannot turn our back on the rest
of the world as we foolishly sought to do in the 1930's.
Like it or not, we are a great power, and our real choice is whether to succeed
or fail in a role we cannot shirk. There is no other nation in the whole free
world capable of stepping into our role.
If we conclude, as I believe we must, that we still need a strong national
defense, the next issue is quite obvious: How much and what kind?
The answer depends on continuing, vigilant assessment of the defenses needed
to safeguard this great Nation—an assessment measured in terms of the inten-
tions and capabilities of potential adversaries and the common strength forged
by our alliances. Our nuclear deterrent must be gaged against the nuclear
capabilities and the intentions of others and, in particular, the Soviet Union.
It is for this reason that the SALT negotiations and the Vladivostok agree-
ment I signed with General Secretary Brezhnev are of such importance. We
are working responsibly to put a cap on the nuclear arms race. Similarly the
amount and the type of conventional forces required will depend on our con-
tinuing ability to maintain a truly effective national defense. It will also depend
on our ability to meet our security commitments and on our ability, with our
483
