[289]
May 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
These words, describing the interdependence of the North Atlantic nations,
are as accurate today as they were a quarter century ago.
On the 25th anniversary of the signing of the North Atlantic Treaty, leaders
of the NATO nations met here in Brussels to reaffirm the Declaration on At-
lantic Relations, the fundamental purposes of an alliance that had fulfilled its
promises by providing for the security, promoting the welfare, and maintaining
the freedom of its members.
We meet here today to renew our commitment to the Alliance. We meet to
remind our citizens in the 15 member nations, by our presence, of the strength
and stability of the transatlantic ties that unite us and to restate our pledge to
collective self-defense. We are assembled to address the serious problems we face
and to review the steps we must take to deal with them.
Renewal of our commitment to the Alliance is the most important of these
purposes. The United States of America unconditionally and unequivocally
remains true to the commitments undertaken when we signed the North
Atlantic Treaty, including the obligation in Article 5 to come to the assistance
of any NATO nation subjected to armed attack. As treaties are the supreme
law of my land, these commitments are juridically binding in the United
States. These commitments are strategically sound, politically essential, and
morally justifiable and, therefore, command broad support in the United States.
They remain the firm foundation, as they have for 26 years, on which our
relationship rests. This foundation has well served the purposes for which it
was created. It will go on serving these purposes, even in the face of new
difficulties, as long as we continue our common resolve.
In the treaty we signed 26 years ago, and from which we drew confidence
and courage, we pledged:
-To live in peace with all peoples and all governments;
-To safeguard the freedom, common heritage, and civilization of our peo-
ples founded on the principles of democracy, individual liberty, and the rule
of law;
-To promote stability and well-being in the North Atlantic area;
-To settle by peaceful means any international dispute in which any one
of us may be involved;
-To eliminate conflict in international economic policies and encourage
economic collaboration;
—To maintain and develop our individual and collective capacity to resist
armed attack by means of continuous and effective self-help and mutual aid;
738
