[200]
April 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
admiration throughout the world. The American people join me in saluting
you for your accomplishments, your dedication, and your wisdom in a con-
troversial and difficult world. We ask that you convey to your people in Zambia
our admiration for them and for you and our greetings.
Mr. President, we have been following developments in southern Africa with
great, great interest. For many years the United States has supported self-deter-
mination for the peoples of that area, and we continue to do so today.
We view the coming independence of Mozambique, Angola, and the island
territories with great satisfaction, just as we viewed the independence of Guinea-
Bissau just last year.
May I say, Mr. President, America stands ready to help the emerging coun-
tries, the emerging nations, and to provide what assistance we can. And we
know, Mr. President, that these new states will continue to look to you for
wise, wise counsel as they build to nationhood in the future.
Much still remains to be done in southern Africa. In this connection, Mr.
President, we welcome your commitment to change through peaceful negotia-
tions and understanding between the parties concerned, rather than through
recourse to violence.
We deeply believe that patient diplomacy will bear great fruit, and we promise
our continued efforts and our support as you seek, with others, to resolve these
problems at the conference table.
Mr. President, in my April 10 speech to the Congress and to the American
people, I noted that America is developing a closer relationship with nations
of Africa, and I said that Africans must know that America is a true and con-
cerned friend, reliable both in word as well as in deed.
Your visit, Mr. President, coming so soon after that occasion, is most timely
for all of us. I hope that you will take back to your countrymen and to all
Africans our renewed pledge of friendship.
Our wide-ranging discussions, Mr. President, this afternoon after my return
from some of our historic celebrations of our 200th, or Bicentennial anniversary
covered matters of common interest and concern, and it confirmed the relation-
ship between your country and my country.
There is, however, one area, Mr. President, of mutual interest which we
tacitly did not discuss. I have since found, tonight, from your lovely wife, that
we have a close and intimate interest in a special area. I understand that you
do enjoy playing golf. [Laughter]
I feel sure, Mr. President, that our common problems, nationally, interna-
tionally, bilaterally, on some occasion in the future can best be resolved by a
534
