[1]
January 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
My Administration will act aggressively to protect the right of privacy for
every American, and I call on the full support of all Federal personnel in im-
plementing requirements of this legislation.
NOTE: As enacted, S. 3418, approved December 31, 1974, is Public Law 93-579 (88 Stat. 1896). The state-
ment was released at Vail, Colo.
2
Remarks Upon Signing the Trade Act of 1974.
January 3, 1975
Mr. Vice President, distinguished members of the Cabinet, Members of the
Congress, including the leadership, ladies and gentlemen:
The Trade Act of 1974, which I am signing into law today, will determine
for many, many years American trade relations with the rest of the world. This
is the most significant trade legislation passed by the Congress since the begin-
ning of trade agreement programs some four decades ago.
It demonstrates our deep commitment to an open world economic order
and interdependence as essential conditions of mutual economic health. The
act will enable Americans to work with others to achieve expansion of the
international flow of goods and services, thereby increasing economic well-
being throughout the world.
It will thus help reduce international tensions caused by trade disputes. It
will mean more and better jobs for American workers, with additional pur-
chasing power for the American consumer.
There are four very basic elements to this trade act: authority to negotiate
further reductions and elimination of trade barriers; a mandate to work with
other nations to improve the world trading system, and thereby avoid impedi-
ments to vital services as well as markets; reform of U.S. laws involving injurious
and unfair competition; and improvement of our economic relations with non-
market economies and developing countries.
Our broad negotiating objectives under this act are to obtain more open and
equitable market access for traded goods and services, to assure fair access to
essential supplies at reasonable prices, to provide our citizens with an increased
opportunity to purchase goods produced abroad, and to seek modernization of
the international trading system.
Under the act, the Administration will provide greater relief for American
2
