March 29
[164]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Therefore, over the past few months, I have repeatedly urged the Congress to
get a straightforward tax cut bill on my desk by Easter, one that would restore
some of the buying power American families lost to inflation and rising prices
in 1973 and 1974. My objective was to put money in the pockets of the American
people promptly rather than have the Congress dream up new schemes for more
of your money to be spent by the Government in Washington.
Last Wednesday, before recessing, the Congress did pass a tax reduction bill,
which is here before me.
The tax cut finally adopted by the Congress represents a compromise between
the $16 billion I recommended in January and the $32 billion figure passed by
the Senate. I said that I would accept a reasonable compromise. And the $23
billion tax reduction is within reason.
However, this bill also distributes the cuts differently and, in my opinion,
fails to give adequate tax relief to the millions of middle-income taxpayers who
already contribute the biggest share of Federal taxes.
But the most troublesome defect of this bill is the fact that the Congress
added to an urgently needed antirecession tax reduction a lot of extraneous
changes in our tax laws, some well-intentioned, but very ill-considered, which
should have waited for deliberate action in committee hearings and full debate
by all Members. Instead, they were adopted in a hectic, last-minute session before
recessing.
This is no way to legislate fundamental tax reforms, and every Member of
the Congress knows it. Upon their return, I will again ask the House and Senate
to work with me on a comprehensive review of our tax structure to eliminate
inequities and to ensure adequate revenues for the future without crippling
economic growth.
I commend those Members of the Congress who fought for a clean and
uncomplicated tax cut to create more jobs and speed economic recovery. If I
were still in the House of Representatives, I would have opposed extraneous
amendments and would have voted to send this bill back to committee for
further cleaning up.
As President, however, I cannot, under the Constitution, accept a part of this
bill and reject the rest. It comes before me on a take-it-or-leave-it basis. The
Congress has gone home. I believe my veto would eventually be sustained. But I
am by no means sure that this Congress would send me a better bill. It might
even be worse.
The people of this country need to know, right now, how to plan their financial
affairs for the rest of this year. Farmers and businessmen have already waited
407
