[281]
May 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
281
Message to the Congress Transmitting Final Report on
the Balance of Payments Deficit Incurred Under the North
Atlantic Treaty. May 27, 1975
To the Congress of the United States:
In accordance with Section 812(d) of the Department of Defense Appropria-
tion Authorization Act, 1974 (Public Law 93–155), I am pleased to submit to
the Congress the sixth and final report on our progress toward offsetting the
fiscal year 1974 balance of payments deficit resulting from the deployment of
U.S. forces in NATO Europe. Section 812 (the Jackson-Nunn Amendment)
states that if our European NATO Allies fail to offset this deficit, then U.S.
.troops in Europe must be reduced by the percentage of offset not provided.
I am pleased to report that our Allies have fully offset the U.S. fiscal year 1974
deficit and that the troop reduction provision will not have to be implemented.
The U.S. NATO-related balance of payments expenditures during fiscal year
1974 totaled $1.997 billion. We sought to cover these expenditures in two ways.
First, we negotiated with the Federal Republic of Germany (FRG) an Offset
Agreement which had a total value of $2.218 billion over the 1974-75 time
period. The fiscal year 1974 portion of the agreement has come to $1.150 billion.
Secondly, our other NATO Allies have placed substantial military procure-
ment in the U.S. They have been able to identify $1.016 billion in such procure-
ment, of which $917 million can at this time be applied against FY 1974 ex-
penditures. The NATO Allies and the NATO Economic Directorate deserve
our special recognition for their cooperation in establishing a liaison mechanism
for identifying these purchases. Appendix A provides an accounting of our
compliance with the provisions of the Amendment.
The Jackson-Nunn Amendment also called upon our Allies to assist the U.S.
in meeting some of the added budgetary costs that result from maintaining
our forces in Europe rather than in the continental United States. The major
form of this budgetary support is contained in the two-year U.S.-FRG Offset
Agreement. The agreement includes approximately $224 million to rehabilitate
badly deteriorated barracks and other troop facilities used by American mili-
tary personnel in the FRG. The FRG also agrees to absorb about $8 million of
real estate taxes and landing fees directly related to U.S. forces in Germany.
Finally, very considerable budgetary relief is implicit in the FRG agreement
to purchase DM 2,250 million in special U.S. Treasury securities at a concessional
726
