July 1
[369]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
America is an economic family. We must live by the rule that any family
must follow. We cannot spend more than we earn by endless borrowing. We
must end our propensity for short-term solutions at the expense of long-range
setbacks.
There are solid signs that the recession is coming to an end. For example,
consumer confidence is up, boosting retail sales in May by 2.2 percent over
April. The number of Americans at work rose by 553,000 between March and
May. Personal income rose in May by $9.3 billion, the biggest jump in 8 months.
Interest rates are down, both prime and others. Housing is showing signs of
recovery, with a 34-percent increase in building permits between March and
May. Housing starts were up 14.2 percent in May over April. And the inflation
rate is down from an average annual rate of more than 12 percent last year to
less than 6 percent today. That is tantamount to 6 percent more purchasing
power.
Obviously, some indicators will continue to be depressed for a few months
because they record only what is past. But I am confident that the economic
decline is over. We must make certain, however, that our recovery is based on
sound economic policy, or we stand in dire danger of setting off another mas-
sive rise in inflation and even deeper recession and greater unemployment and
hardship in the future. We don't want that.
A policy of fiscal restraint does not mean that this Nation will turn its back
on major problems of employment, housing, transportation, health care, and
education. In fact, my budget for the fiscal year of 1976, which starts today—
it increases the total of these human resources programs by more than $17
billion over fiscal year 1975.
The critical area of jobs required action to meet immediate needs without
upending long-term progress. Temporary aid measures I proposed have sought
to keep this very, very important balance.
For example, this summer, some 840,000 young Americans will be working
because of Congressional action on my request for $473 million for summer
youth employment and recreation programs.
Last Friday, I signed into law legislation which I requested to extend for one
year the public service jobs program and to provide $1.6 billion to continue
310,000 jobs.
Yesterday, I signed legislation to extend the unemployment insurance pro-
gram to provide up to 65 weeks of compensation to persons without jobs.
But these are temporary measures to cushion the blow. They do not answer
903
