May 15
[257]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
257
Letter to the Speaker of the House and the President Pro Tempore
of the Senate Reporting on United States Actions in the
Recovery of the SS Mayaguez. May 15, 1975
ON 12 May 1975, I was advised that the S.S. Mayaguez, a merchant vessel of
United States registry en route from Hong Kong to Thailand with a U.S.
citizen crew, was fired upon, stopped, boarded, and seized by Cambodian naval
patrol boats of the Armed Forces of Cambodia in international waters in the
vicinity of Poulo Wai Island. The seized vessel was then forced to proceed to
Koh Tang Island where it was required to anchor. This hostile act was in clear
violation of international law.
In view of this illegal and dangerous act, I ordered, as you have been previ-
ously advised, United States military forces to conduct the necessary reconnais-
sance and to be ready to respond if diplomatic efforts to secure the return of
the vessel and its personnel were not successful. Two United States reconnais-
sance aircraft in the course of locating the Mayaguez sustained minimal damage
from small firearms. Appropriate demands for the return of the Mayaguez and
its crew were made, both publicly and privately, without success.
In accordance with my desire that the Congress be informed on this matter
and taking note of Section 4(a)(1) of the War Powers Resolution, I wish to
report to you that at about 6:20 a.m., 13 May, pursuant to my instructions to
prevent the movement of the Mayaguez into a mainland port, U.S. aircraft
fired warning shots across the bow of the ship and gave visual signals to small
craft approaching the ship. Subsequently, in order to stabilize the situation and
in an attempt to preclude removal of the American crew of the Mayaguez to
the mainland, where their rescue would be more difficult, I directed the United
States Armed Forces to isolate the island and interdict any movement between
the ship or the island and the mainland, and to prevent movement of the ship
itself, while still taking all possible care to prevent loss of life or injury to the
U.S. captives. During the evening of 13 May, a Cambodian patrol boat attempt-
ing to leave the island disregarded aircraft warnings and was sunk. Thereafter,
two other Cambodian patrol craft were destroyed and four others were damaged
and immobilized. One boat, suspected of having some U.S. captives aboard,
succeeded in reaching Kompong Som after efforts to turn it around without
injury to the passengers failed.
Our continued objective in this operation was the rescue of the captured
669
