[187]
April 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
The third Republican article of faith I would mention is our basic theme or
our basic belief in freedom-the freedom of States and local governments to
make their own decisions and the best use of their resources, the freedom of
employees and employers to reach their own economic terms without govern-
ment coercion, the freedom of every individual to aspire and to achieve his own
goals within his own concepts of a good life.
I say that freedom is an article of faith because it is on trial throughout the
world tonight. It is no more certain now that it was for our forefathers who
founded this great Republic.
When the drafters of that historic document-the Constitution of the United
States—finished their work in Philadelphia in 1787, Benjamin Franklin was
recognized as he left the hall, that historic hall, by a crowd of curious citizens
gathered outside: "What kind of a government have you given us, Dr. Frank-
lin?” a woman's voice called out. “A republic, madam,” Benjamin Franklin
replied, "if you can keep it."
We have kept it now for almost 200 years through many triumphs and quite
a few tribulations.
Once, when it seemed almost lost—and history tells it vividly-the Republic
was saved by a man who came from the people and whose faith in the people,
in all people, never faltered. I will not claim that Abraham Lincoln belongs to
our Republican Party, for actually, I think he belongs to all Americans. But I
do urge, and I say it as strongly and as emphatically as I can, that our Republi-
can Party remain faithful to the principles of Abraham Lincoln.
On those principles, Republicans can and will unite, Republicans can and
will increase their numbers and their political strength, Republicans can and
will come back to win in 1976.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:15 p.m. in the
International Ballroom at the Washington Hilton
Hotel. In his opening remarks, he referred to Sen-
ator Ted Stevens, chairman of the National Repub-
lican Senate Committee, Mary Louise Smith, chair-
man of the Republican National Committee, and
Representative Guy Vander Jagt, chairman of the
National Republican Congressional Committee.
492
