[341]
June 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
The criminal and civil caseloads in trial and in appellate courts have grown
over the years, while the number of judges assigned to handle those cases has
not kept pace. In 1972, the Judicial Conference of the United States recom-
mended the creation of 51 additional Federal District Court judgeships in 33
separate judicial districts across the country. Senate hearings on legislation
incorporating this proposal were conducted in 1973. To date, however, the legis-
lation has not been scheduled for floor action. The increasing needs of the Fed-
eral courts make this measure an urgent national necessity of a nonpartisan
nature—for justice delayed is too often justice denied. In addition, seemingly
technical but important reform in the Federal criminal justice system can be
achieved by expanding the criminal jurisdiction of United States Magistrates.
This reform will enable the relatively small number of Federal judges to focus
their efforts on the most significant criminal cases. The Criminal Justice Reform
Act contains a provision that will achieve that result, and I am giving it my
specific support.
When a defendant is convicted, even for a violent crime, judges are too often
unwilling to impose prison sentence, in part because they consider prison con-
ditions inhumane. Moreover, a cruel and dehumanizing penal institution can
actually be a breeding ground for criminality. In any case, a civilized society
that seeks to diminish violence in its midst cannot condone prisons where mur-
der, vicious assault and homosexual rapes are common occurrences.
The Federal Bureau of Prisons has embarked on a program to replace large,
outdated prisons with smaller, more modern ones. The Bureau has seven new
corrections institutions of this sort under construction. All are designed to be
civilized places that can be governed effectively by the wardens and correctional
officers rather than by the most brutal and inhuman prisoners. In addition, the
Bureau is opening new institutions in three major cities to replace overcrowded,
antiquated local jails which formerly housed Federal prisoners awaiting trial.
The program to improve Federal prisons must be paralleled by State efforts,
because the problem of decrepit prison facilities that are hothouses of crime
is worst at the State and local level. Unless prisons are improved, many judges
will only reluctantly commit convicted offenders to them, even if they are guilty
of serious crimes and have previous criminal records.
I know that grave questions have been raised by qualified experts about the
ability of the corrections system to rehabilitate offenders. These are important
and serious questions. They go to the very heart of the corrections system. While
the problem of criminal rehabilitation is difficult, we must not give up on our
efforts to achieve it, especially in dealing with youthful offenders. Crime by
846
