April 14
[185]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
I think, the problems that remain in assuring true equal opportunity. While
nearly one-third of all Federal employees are women, only 4.5 percent of the
top level employees are women.
This Administration, as the records will show, recently reminded the heads
of all Federal departments and agencies that a strong affirmative action is
needed to see that everyone has the opportunity to compete on a fair and equal
basis.
The Federal Government, in my judgment, has a very special responsibility
and a special opportunity to set an example, and this we intend to do. I hear
about that from Betty virtually every night. [Laughter] And I can assure you
with that kind of prodding that this Administration will continue to vigorously
pursue talented applicants on the basis of qualifications alone.
One of the most refreshing byproducts of the search to secure rights for
women is the emphasis on freeing both sexes from restrictive stereotypes. Libera-
tion of the spirit opens new possibilities for the future of individual Americans
and the Nation.
I think there are several very critical areas that can benefit from your personal
attention. When I look around this room, I know that the attention of this
group can have a tremendous impact. One of these is the equal rights amend-
ment, which I wholeheartedly endorse, having already voted for it.
I have had a special opportunity to follow the debate of ERA because Betty
keeps talking about it at night. [Laughter] But it would be my observation that
it has too often degenerated into some frivolous non-issues. An amendment to
the Constitution calls for a very serious evaluation of the impact and the mean-
ing of a proposed change.
As State legislatures convene this year, the ensuing debate over ERA should
be a vehicle to inform legislators, and the public as well, on the many complex
legal problems that women still encounter.
Myths about the protected economic status of women can be dispelled through
serious discussion. The way can be opened, as I see it, for the review of areas
that will not be affected by ERA.
You have a challenging and very critical task ahead. You can do much, in
my judgment, to move the Nation along toward making justice and equality
a reality for the American woman.
The restrictions on the rights, the restrictions on the responsibilities to one
American affects all of us. A nation is only as strong, a nation is only as creative
479
