March 20
[149]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
when you get right down to it, the keystone of our American way of life is
openness. We do not believe in hiding the truth, whether it is flattering or
unflattering.
We recognize, of course, we know full well that we have our faults, and
we certainly have our problems, but we want our friends from abroad to see
the truth, to see how we solve our problems openly, and to judge for themselves
the success of our democratic government.
We live in a time very unique for both its peril as well as its promise. The
potential consequences of war today are more terrible than they have ever
been in human history. But at the same time, the possibility of lasting global
peace and prosperity is closer than ever before.
The road to such a peace is bound to be long and very difficult, but I firmly
believe that we are making headway. We will have our disappointments. And
one of the things that makes that road a little smoother and the trip far more
rewarding is a program like this and the true spirit that it represents.
I congratulate you all. I thank you all. And I wish you the very best.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:30 p.m. in the
Formal Dining Room at the Department of State.
In his opening remarks, he referred to Robert B.
Anderson, chairman of the Travel Program for
Foreign Diplomats, Inc., and John Kircher, president
of Continental Oil Company.
149
Statement Supporting Senate Resolution on Voluntary Energy
Conservation. March 20, 1975
IN MY State of the Union Message, I outlined a comprehensive program to
address the Nation's energy and economic problems. My energy program in-
cludes measures to encourage energy conservation, to increase domestic energy
production, and to prepare for any future emergency that might result from an
oil embargo. I set goals of reducing oil imports by 1 million barrels per day
below expected levels by the end of 1975 and 2 million barrels per day by 1977—
and achieving energy independence by 1985.
I announced administrative actions and legislative proposals which are neces-
sary to achieve these goals. The Nation is now awaiting action by the Congress
on my legislative proposals. I am confident that the Congress will move quickly
so that we can minimize the adverse economic impact of the outflow of dollars
for imported oil and reduce our vulnerability to disruption by another embargo.
389
