[13]
January 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
In my judgment, the foregoing considerations should guide the commission
in the preparation of its plan, and I have approved the measure on that basis.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 14689, approved January 4, 1975, is Public Law 93-645 (88 Stat. 2330).
14
Statement on Signing the Social Services Amendments of 1974.
January 4, 1975
ALTHOUGH I have signed H.R. 17045, I am pleased with most of its provi-
sions but concerned about others.
The provisions concerning the Federal-State partnership program for social
services successfully concludes many long months of negotiations among the
Congress, the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, Governors, State
administrators, and spokesmen for producers and consumers. Ending a long
impasse, the efforts of all exemplify my call for communication, cooperation,
conciliation, and compromise when I assumed the office of President.
The second element of this bill involves the collection of child support pay-
ments from absent parents. I strongly agree with the objectives of this legislation.
In pursuit of this objective, however, certain provisions of this legislation go
too far by injecting the Federal Government into domestic relations. Specifi-
cally, provisions for use of the Federal courts, the tax collection procedures of
the Internal Revenue Service, and excessive audit requirements are an undesir-
able and an unnecessary intrusion of the Federal Government into domestic
relations. They are also an undesirable addition to the workload of the Federal
courts, the IRS, and the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare Audit
Agency. Further, the establishment of a parent locator service in the Department
of Health, Education, and Welfare with access to all Federal records raises
serious privacy and administrative issues. I believe that these defects should be
corrected in the next Congress, and I will propose legislation to do so.
I am particularly pleased that this legislation follows a desirable trend in
Federal-State relations. It will improve the results of programs previously ham-
pered by unrealistic assumptions of Federal review and control. Those decisions
related to local conditions and needs will be made at the State level, while
Federal responsibilities are clearly delineated. Indeed, the interests of not only
the Federal and State governments but also producers and consumers are recog-
nized and protected.
14
