[128]
March 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
128
Remarks at the Swearing In of William T. Coleman, Jr.,
as Secretary of Transportation. March 7, 1975
Mr. Secretary:
Before making an observation or a comment, as we walked in I couldn't
help but note that back in 1963 I had the first opportunity of meeting the Secre-
tary. Following the tragedy of the assassination of President Kennedy, I was
appointed by President Johnson as a member of the Warren Commission. And
the Commission, under the leadership of the then Chief Justice, sought out the
finest lawyers we could find. And one who was recruited to be on the staff of
the Warren Commission was our now about-to-be Secretary of Commerce-
Secretary of Transportation, excuse me. I'm not switching jobs on you; I'm
thinking of one we have to fill. [Laughter]
But anyhow, it was a pleasure to work with him then, and I have been very
proud of the contribution that he made on that very important assignment.
When we were looking for a Secretary of Transportation, Bill Coleman's
name was right at the top of the list. But Mr. Secretary, you have your work cut
out for you. The policies and the programs of your department will play a very
critical role as this Nation proceeds toward energy independence.
Transportation accounts for over 50 percent of our total petroleum use. To
attain the goal of energy independence, we need strong assistance from the
transportation sector.
In January, I signed a bill making the 55-mile-per-hour speed limit man-
datory. It contains tough provisions so the Secretary of Transportation can
ensure strict enforcement by the respective States. The State governments will
soon be certifying to you that they are enforcing the speed limit prior to the
future release of Federal highway funds. Strict enforcement of the 55-mile-per-
hour limit is absolutely essential. It will save lives as well as energy. I will look to
you for stern but equitable enforcement.
You will also be working closely with my energy and environmental advisers
to improve the fuel efficiency of automobiles produced in this country. I am
determined to reach the goal of a 40 percent improvement by 1979 in the energy
efficiency of new cars sold in this country.
Another important part of our transportation program affects energy. It is
the National Mass Transportation Assistance Act of 1974, which I signed in
November of last year. I worked for the passage of this bill in the last days of
334
