May 6
[243]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
of Hawaii as well as Mayor Alioto, who have communicated with me and indi-
cated their support for a policy of giving the opportunity of South Vietnamese
to come from this country to escape the possibility of death in their country
under the North Vietnamese and the Vietcong, and individuals who wanted an
opportunity for freedom.
I think this is the right attitude for Americans to take, and I am delighted
for the support that I have gotten.
Q. Could I follow that and ask you why, in your judgment, is there such a
widespread adverse reaction to this?
THE PRESIDENT. I understand the attitude of some. We have serious economic
problems. But out of the 120,000 refugees who are either here or on their way,
60 percent of those are children. They ought to be given an opportunity. Only
35,000 heads of families will be moved into our total society.
Now, I understand people who are concerned with our economic problems.
But we have assimilated between 50 and 100,000 Hungarians in the mid-fifties,
we have brought into this country some 500 to 600,000 Cubans. They have been
good citizens, and we ought to welcome these people in the same way. And
despite our economic problems, I am convinced that the vast majority of Ameri-
cans today want these people to have another opportunity to escape the prob-
ability of death, and therefore, I applaud those who feel that way.
1976 PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN
[4.] Q. Mr. President, I'd like to ask a political question. What steps have
you taken so far toward the creation of a campaign organization in 1976? And
if you haven't taken any steps, what steps do you plan to take in the future?
And when do you plan to take them?
THE PRESIDENT. Within the last week, a group headed by Dean Burch have
indicated that they would like to get started in a very informal way to kick off
a campaign at the proper time. This group is meeting within the next few days.
I understand they expect to get a great many more who will join them.
The precise time when we will take the formal step to declare my candidacy
has not yet been determined, but I would only reiterate my intention to become
a candidate.
Q. Mr. President, you have said many times that you intend to become a candi-
date, and yet there seems to be continual skepticism in some quarters of your
own party that you really will be. Why do you think that skepticism has
endured?
643
