[232]
May 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
232
Veto of the Emergency Agricultural Bill.
May 1, 1975
To the House of Representatives:
I am returning without my approval H.R. 4296, referred to as the Emergency
Agricultural Act of 1975. Although the aim of this bill is laudable, its results
would be costly not only to consumers and taxpayers but to American farmers
in the long run. It would damage our international market position which is so
essential to American agriculture's long-term interests.
Approval of this bill, therefore, would not be in the public interest.
In the conduct of the Government's fiscal affairs a line must be drawn against
excesses. I drew that line in my address to the Nation on March 29. I promised
all Americans that, except where national security interests, energy require-
ments, or urgent humanitarian needs were involved, I would act to hold our
fiscal year 1976 deficit to no more than $60 billion.
New spending programs which the Congress is considering could easily raise
the Federal deficit to an intolerable level of $100 billion. This must not happen.
H.R. 4296 is an example of increased non-essential spending. In fiscal year
1976, it could add an estimated $1.8 billion to the Federal deficit. If used as a
point of departure for longer-term legislation—as was strongly indicated during
its consideration-it could lead to an escalation of farm program subsidies in
succeeding years.
Approval of this bill would undermine the successful market-oriented farm
policy adopted by this Administration and the Congress. It is a step backward
toward previously discredited policies.
Prospects for farmers, it is true, are not as bright this year as in the recent
past. Farm production costs have been pushed upward by the same inflationary
pressures that affect other industries. Demand for certain farm products has
simultaneously slackened because of the recession. Prices paid by farmers are
currently 11 percent above year-ago levels. In contrast, the index of prices re-
ceived by farmers is now 7 percent below levels of a year ago. Fortunately, the
latest index, released Wednesday, shows that the 5-month decline in prices
received by farmers has been reversed and was 4 percent above a month earlier.
The Administration recognizes that some farmers have experienced financial
difficulties due to this cost-price squeeze. It has taken a number of positive steps
to assist farmers. The 1976 wheat acreage allotment was recently increased by
620
