May 18
[264]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
I have been impressed, Your Majesty, with the friendship that you have long
shown to our country. And I have been greatly impressed with the long friend-
ship between our peoples and the mutual dedication that all of us have from our
respective countries to a betterment for your country and for ours and for the
world at large.
Your Excellencies, and others, will you join me, please, in a toast to the
Shahanshah and Shahbanou of Iran.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:10 p.m. at the
Iranian Embassy in response to a toast proposed by
the Shah.
The Shah spoke as follows:
264
Your Excellence, ladies and gentlemen:
Will you rise for a toast to the health of the
President of the United States of America and Mrs.
Ford.
Commencement Address at the University of Pennsylvania.
May 18, 1975
President Meyerson, distinguished honoraries, distinguished guests, members
of the faculty, parents, friends, and graduating seniors of the class of 1975, and
fellow alumni of the University of Pennsylvania:
It is a great privilege and a very high honor for me to be here on this wonder-
ful occasion.
Let me reiterate, if I might, and thank you most sincerely for the honor and
the pleasure of speaking here today to the graduating class of the University of
Pennsylvania, one of America's great educational complexes consisting of 16
institutions of higher learning and personal enlightenment-17 if you include
Smokey Joe's. [Laughter]
I have only been here for a few hours today, but one of the things I have come
to recognize and to admire in all Penn students is your ability to keep things in
perspective.
The way I see it, in an age that puts such a premium on drive, ambition, com-
petition, and the need to excel, any campus that has a sculpture called "We Lost"
can't be all bad. [Laughter]
Really, I am very delighted to be here on this momentous occasion in the
history of the University of Pennsylvania.
Two hundred years ago, the members of the Second Continental Congress
adjourned their sessions and marched over in a body to participate in the gradu-
ation ceremonies of your great institution. I congratulate you on this unique bit
of history. From my experience, it is not all that easy to get a Congress to march
together on anything.
679
