[36]
January 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
to 10-year gas rationing program, which is what it would have to be, would
hamstring rather than help our solution.
OIL IMPORT FEES
[17.] Q. Mr. President, if requested by Congress, would you consider post-
poning for a time-90 days perhaps your plan to increase the tariff on imported
oil?
THE PRESIDENT. I think it is important for the Congress to understand, in the
solution of the energy program, that we should move forward and not take a
backward step.
If we were to postpone the imposition of the $1 extra per barrel on imported
oil, it would start the momentum going for the cutback of 1 million barrels per
day in foreign oil imports, and the sooner we start that, the better it will be in the
conservation of energy, which is essential to our present and future well-being.
REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
[18.] Q. Mr. President, a two-part followup on Vietnam. What is your assess-
ment of the military situation there, and are you considering any additional
measures, beyond a supplemental, of assistance to the South Vietnamese
Government?
THE PRESIDENT. The North Vietnamese have infiltrated with substantial mili-
tary personnel and many, many weapons in violation of the Paris accords. They
are attacking, in many instances, major metropolitan areas and province capitals.
The South Vietnamese are fighting as skillfully and with firmness against this
attack by the North Vietnamese. I think it is essential for their morale as well as
for their security that we proceed with the supplemental that I am recommend-
ing, which will be submitted either this week or next week.
Now, I am not anticipating any further action beyond that supplemental at
this time.
THE NATION'S ECONOMY AND UNEMPLOYMENT
[19.] Q. Mr. President, you have painted a pretty bleak picture of the econ-
omy. Just what can the American people expect in the months ahead? How high
will unemployment go, and how soon will your medicine start taking hold?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, you can get a variety of answers as to how high unem-
ployment will go, but you can take one figure of 7.5 percent, some say over 8
percent. Either figure is too high. And my program, if implemented by the
Congress, will remedy the situation.
Now, it seems to me that by the late summer we ought to see a turnaround
68
