June 2
[300]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
As you know, the United States will celebrate its 200th anniversary of inde-
pendence next year. We are now taking a new look at our own early history. As
our celebration begins, we have new pride in the courage, the vision, and the
wisdom and determination of our forefathers.
America has long stood for peace and human progress based upon justice.
And I want you to know, Mr. President, that these remain our objectives now
and, I am certain, in the future. They have the full support of the American
people, regardless of their political persuasion.
You and I have very thoroughly reviewed the situation in the Middle East
and its implications for the area and the world as a whole. We have discussed
the approaches to the continuing process of negotiation. The final decision, of
course, cannot be made until other consultations have been held.
We both are totally agreed on the need, indeed, the imperative of giving
momentum to progress toward peace. And as I have pledged to you, Mr.
President, the United States will not permit a stalemate or a stagnation to develop
in this all-essential progress. And I believe that our consultations have made a
very important contribution toward this objective.
Mr. President, you gave me a very illuminating picture of your plans to put
Egypt on the path of sustained economic progress for the future. And I assure
you that the United States is prepared to provide Egypt with current assistance
as a basis for a long-range economic development, both bilaterally and in co-
operation with other states and other international institutions. And I will work
with our Congress to give reality to this continuing pledge.
Mr. President, I have found in our talks that we both share the same goal—
peace and progress for our peoples and for all humanity. For that reason, I am
gratified that our two countries have strengthened friendship dramatically in
the past 22 years and begun cooperation in so many broad fields. I am deter-
mined, Mr. President, to continue and to expand this friendship.
Nothing is more apparent in today's world than the fact that the destinies of
nations are intertwined. The interdependence of nations is not simply an abstract
concept; it is a reality that all peoples and all nations must recognize. The
problems of one are the problems of all; the progress of one contributes to the
progress of all.
We in the United States will conduct our relations with you, Mr. President,
in this broad spirit. And we know this is your desire as well. Together, Mr.
President, and in cooperation with other states that seek peace, progress, and
human dignity, we will achieve our common goal.
Gentlemen, I ask all of you to join me in a toast to the President and to the
761
