[135]
March 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
community leaders such as yourselves. The best briefing paper in the world
cannot explain problems as well as someone who deals with those problems on
a very daily and direct basis. Governors or mayors or publishers-you are all
equally important.
Government officials, I have learned, whether it was in the Congress or in
this house, need more talkback from the people that they serve, and that is
particularly true of those of us in Washington in the political atmosphere in
which we live. This town can be just as parochial as a town of 250 people, and
in some respects it is even more so.
One of our ways at the White House of getting talkback is the briefing sessions
that you have participated in, but another is for you to send your comments,
your editorials to Ron Nessen of our Press Office. We need to hear from you,
and we need to hear from the readers that all of you serve.
We also need your help in describing the problems and the solutions that
seem to be the best answer to the problems that we have. But the economic and
energy debate underway now must not become simply an exchange of rhetoric,
whether it is in the printed media, the electronic media, or just plain talk
among people. The debate, as I see it, must produce action.
In January, for example, this Administration outlined a comprehensive
program to deal with some very harsh realities facing our Nation, both
economically and in energy. We made some hard, stern choices in drawing up
the Administration plan. I can tell you from personal experience, countless
hours working in these two major fields—and we finally culminated all of
these hours of many, many people in a program or a plan—the kind of choices
that some politicians would rather talk about than make.
You deal with deadlines in your business, and I can recall vividly going to
many smaller communities in my district on a Wednesday to talk with people
in those communities, and I always stopped by the local weekly to chat with the
editor. I soon learned that Wednesday was not the time to do it. [Laughter]
If I wanted to lose points rather than make them, I did it on a Saturday or on a
Monday.
As I said, you deal with deadlines, and if those deadlines aren't met, then
you can't serve your readers on time. It is my judgment that the Congress must
respond to some very real national deadlines.
I asked, for example, for action by April 1 on the rebate of 1974 income
taxes for individuals as well as for business. There has been much discussion
on who should receive the tax rebates—a discussion based too often on purely
political considerations.
350
