[46]
January 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
It seems to me that it is vital in both cases that action be taken immediately
by the Congress. It appears that in the tax rebate for 1975, predicated on 1974
income, the Congress is going to respond quite quickly. And I am extremely
interested, of course, in getting the Congress to act immediately thereafter on
the energy package.
Now, the important fact is that the energy plan, which has been reviewed by
others here today, goes far beyond trying to reduce consumption of imported
oil through price levers. The plan, that is very comprehensive, tackles the need
for more domestic sources, the better use of energy, and the research for new
energy sources.
Let me say a word or two about each of the three categories:
Better or more domestic sources—this includes a much broader program of
oil and gas exploration in the United States. The facts are that since 1968 or 1969,
our exploration for more gas and more oil in the United States has dropped off
significantly. If we are going to develop more domestic oil and gas, we have to
have an incentive for those people who are in that business. And the program
that I have submitted to the Congress provides for that.
Now, the second is the better use of energy. What we hope to do here in a
number of cases—and I will just give one or two—is to cut down the use of
energy by, for example, the installation of insulation in homes and in buildings
generally. The program provides a 15-percent tax credit for up to $1,000 for a
homeowner to install storm windows or insulation. The best estimate is that
this will save about 300,000 barrels per day, and it will cost the Federal Treasury
approximately $500 million. But it will improve the efficiency of homes and it
will cut down, as I indicated, the utilization of some 300,000 barrels a day.
Research for new sources, new sources of energy-solar, geothermal. I was
in Los Alamos last July and saw some of the research and development work
that was being undertaken by the AEC at that time. Geothermal has a great
potential, certainly, in particular areas of our country. And under the new
Energy Research and Development Agency, ERDA, with Bob Seamans as
the head of it, we are consolidating and coordinating the research in this
area as well as solar and some of the others.
What we need is to actually restyle our entire national approach to energy
production and energy consumption. It is a complex subject, and if you had
seen the number of volumes that were presented to me for reading, the number
of volumes that I had to look at in selecting options, I think you would share
the view that it is a very complex subject.
But it is a problem that has to be met, and the program that I have sub-
110
