[45]
January 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
a
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think I ought to talk in terms of percentage, Tom.
There is a serious danger of war in the Middle East. I have had conferences with
representatives of all the nations, practically, in the Middle East. I have talked to
people in Europe. I have talked to other experts, and everybody says it is a very,
potentially volatile situation.
It is my judgment that we might have a very good opportunity to be success-
ful in what we call our step-by-step process. I hope our optimism is borne out.
We are certainly going to try.
MR. BROKAW. Is it tied to Secretary Kissinger's next trip to that part of the
world?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, he is going because we think it might be fruitful, but
we don't want to raise expectations. We have to be realistic, but if we don't try
to move in this direction at this time, I think we might lose a unique opportunity.
MR. BROKAW. Should we not succeed this time, Mr. President, do you think
it is probably time that we have to abandon this step-by-step process and go on
to Geneva as the Soviets would like to have us do?
THE PRESIDENT. I think that is a distinct possibility. We prefer the process
that has been been successful so far, but if there is no progress, then I think we
undoubtedly would be forced to go to Geneva.
I wouldn't be any more optimistic; in fact, I would be less optimistic if the
matter was thrown on the doorstep of Geneva.
MR. CHANCELLOR. Mr. President, really, the Russians have been shut out of
Middle Eastern diplomacy since Dr. Kissinger began step-by-step diplomacy.
Why was that? Couldn't the Russians play more of a positive role than they are
doing? They are arming the Arabs to the teeth, and that is really about all we
have been able to see or all they have been allowed to do under the way that we
have set our policies.
THE PRESIDENT. I am not as authoritative on what was done during the Octo-
ber war of 1973 in the Middle East as I am now, of course. I can assure you that
we do keep contact with the Soviet Union at the present time. We are not trying
to shut them out of the process of trying to find an answer in the Middle East.
They can play and they have played a constructive role, even under the current
circumstances.
So, I think it is unfair and not accurate to say that they are not playing a part.
We are taking a course of action where it is more visible perhaps that we are
doing something. But I say sincerely that the Soviet Union is playing a part,
even at the present time.
98
