[121]
March 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
letting businessmen and farmers expand, modernize and create more jobs is
intolerable.
I do not believe the Congress will endanger the future of all Americans. I am
confident that the legislative branch will work with me in the Nation's highest
interests.
What we need now is a simple tax cut and then a comprehensive energy plan
to end our dependence on foreign oil.
What we don't need is a time-wasting test of strength between the Congress
and the President. What we do need is a show of strength that the United States
government can act decisively and with dispatch.
The White House,
March 4, 1975.
GERALD R. FORD
NOTE: The House of Representatives reconsidered H.R. 1767 on March 11, 1975, and referred the bill to
committee.
122
Remarks at the Annual Congressional Dinner of the
University of Michigan Club. March 5, 1975
THANK YOU very much, Marv, and may I express my deep appreciation for
your more than generous introduction. That is literally true that Betty and I
spent the first night of our honeymoon at that famous L and L Hotel. I thought
that I was giving her a great treat. I can only add this: I have paid for that mistake
a thousand times. [Laughter]
My former colleagues in the Congress, Bob Griffin and Members of the House,
President Fleming, my associates as alumni of the University of Michigan, par-
ticularly my colleagues in the class of 1935:
It is a great privilege and a very high honor to have the opportunity of partic-
ipating in the 23d gathering of this kind in the National Capital.
I might say to Chuck-Chuck Wixom over here he speaks with some
remorse about the fact that only one of his children has indicated that there was
a skip of a generation. I can assure you from my limited experience that four
in our family give me an awful lot of trouble and oftentimes-if not almost
unanimously—have their own views and have no hesitancy to communicate
them to their father, regardless of what office he may hold.
Well, I can say without any reservation or qualification that it is a particular
316
