[72]
February 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
in the negotiations that are necessary to put the final draft. These negotiations
are taking place in Geneva.
I see no reason why we cannot reconcile any of the relatively minor differ-
ences. The basic agreement is still in effect, and I am confident that we can
welcome the General Secretary to the United States in the summer of 1975, and
I look forward to it.
ECONOMIC AND ENERGY PROGRAMS
[5.] Q. Mr. President, I am Alva Haywood, president of the Georgia Press
Association. Your program for the solution of the problems of energy and the
economic situation is submitted to Congress as a package, and you are asking
Congress to approve this as a package. The concern, sir, is that Congress will lift
out points of your program, substitute points of their program, and leave some
areas lacking. Would you comment on the possibilities of such a situation?
THE PRESIDENT. It is true, as you have stated, that I submitted to the Congress
a comprehensive plan or program to solve our energy problem. As a matter of
fact, the bill that we sent to the Congress is about 196 pages, and that did not
include the tax proposals, because a President does not submit, in writing, tax
proposals; he submits the ideas. And it did not include the proposal I am sub-
mitting for the strip mining bill of 1975. But this is a comprehensive, inter-
related program to solve our energy problem by reducing consumption and
stimulating additional production.
The Congress, I hope, will consider it as a package. Now, if they do not agree
with the package, I think the Congress has an obligation to come up with their
package. I do not believe they can pick and choose with press release answers.
They have to have something solid.
Now, if they want to change, in a minor way, a part of my package, I will
understand it. But they cannot come up with a part of an answer, because the
problem is altogether too broad and sweeping. It affects us in industry, in our
homes, in our driving, et cetera. I just hope the Congress understands the need
for a comprehensive plan and will act accordingly.
UNEMPLOYMENT
[6.] Q. Mr. President, recently in Washington, the big city mayors expressed
concern over the high unemployment rate, particularly in the cities where it
runs, as you know, much ahead of the national unemployment rate. Consider-
ing that your Budget Message predicts that we may have high unemployment
for up to another year to 18 months, have your advisers given you any forecast
on the possible effect in terms of the concern of the mayors, which was a return
186
