[70]
February 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
I have, therefore, recommended an excise tax on domestic crude oil and
natural gas and an import fee on imported oil, as well as decontrol of the price
of crude oil. These actions will raise the price of all energy-intensive products and
reduce oil consumption and imports. I have requested the Congress to enact a tax
on producers of domestic crude oil to prevent windfall profits as a result of price
decontrol.
Other aspects of my program will provide assurances that imports will not be
allowed to disrupt the domestic energy market. Amendments to the Clean Air
Act to allow more use of coal without major environmental damage, and incen-
tives to speed the development of nuclear energy and synthetic fuels will
simultaneously increase domestic energy production.
Taken as a whole, the energy package will reduce the damage from any future
import disruption to manageable proportions. The energy program however
will entail costs. The import fee and tax combination will raise approximately
$30 billion from energy consumers. However, I have also proposed a fair and
equitable program of permanent tax reductions to compensate consumers for
these higher costs. These will include income tax reductions of $16 billion for
individuals, along with direct rebates of $2 billion to low-income citizens who
pay little or no taxes, corporate tax reductions of $6 billion, a $2-billion increase
in revenue sharing payments to State and local governments, and a $3-billion
increase in Federal expenditures.
Although appropriate fiscal and energy policies are central to restoring the
balance of our economy, they will be supplemented by initiatives in a number
of other areas. I was pleased to sign into law in December unemployment com-
pensation legislation which provides extended benefits and expanded coverage
for the unemployed. The budget also provides for a significant expansion in
public service employment. I also urge the Congress to remove the remaining
restrictions on agricultural production and enact legislation to strengthen finan-
cial institutions and assist the financial position of corporations. I have also asked
for actions to strengthen the Administration's antitrust investigative power and
to permit more competition in the transportation industry.
We sometimes discover when we seek to accomplish several objectives simul-
taneously that the goals are not always completely compatible. Action to achieve
one goal sometimes works to the detriment of another. I recognize that the
$16-billion anti-recession tax cut, which adds to an already large Federal deficit,
might delay achieving price stability. But a prompt tax cut is essential. My pro-
gram will raise the price of energy to consumers; but when completed this
176
