April 3
[166]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
I can only assure you that to the extent that the Federal Government can do
something about it, we, this Administration, will do it. The facts of life are that
most law enforcement is the local responsibility.
Through the Law Enforcement Assistance Act, the Federal Government has
been spending for the last several years around $800 million to help local units
of government, State units of government in the upgrading of their law enforce-
ment capability-helping police departments, helping sheriffs' departments,
helping the courts—and will continue to do it. But the principal responsibility
rests at the local level.
Q. Will you be able to spend any more money, under your proposition that
the line has to be drawn somewhere, on fighting the crime problem?
THE PRESIDENT. I think in the budget that I submitted there is ample money
for a Federal effort to carry out the Federal role in the area of law enforcement.
PRESIDENT'S WAR POWERS
[11.] Q. Mr. President, you spoke a few minutes ago about being frustrated
by the limitations of the War Powers Act. If it were not forbidden now, would
you like to send American planes and naval forces and possibly ground forces
into Vietnam to try to turn the situation around?
THE PRESIDENT. I have said that there are no plans whatsoever for U.S. mili-
tary involvement in Vietnam. On the other hand, I think history does prove
that if a Chief Executive has a potential, it, to some extent, is a deterrent against
aggressors.
Q. So, that is your frustration-because you do not have that power to at least
threaten the possibility?
THE PRESIDENT. I did not use the word "threat." I said the potential for power,
I think, over the years has indicated that that potential is a deterrent against
aggression by one country against another.
1976 PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN
[12.] Q. Mr. President, in view of the possible primary entries by Governor
Reagan and perhaps Governor Thomson of New Hampshire, would you be
good enough to discuss your own timetable? When will you set up your com-
mittee, specifically, and can you also tell us, do you plan to enter any primaries
yourself or through a stand-in candidate?
THE PRESIDENT. We have not defined our precise timetable nor our precise
plans for the pre-convention campaign. We are in the process of putting together
our timetable and our plan. I have said repeatedly that I intend to be a candidate,
419
