[85]
February 11
Public Papers of the Presidents
when he pulled that figure out of the air. I think Mr. Meany, I might say paren-
thetically, will approve of my release of $2 billion in highway construction
funds, because he has repeatedly said that these people have a high unemploy-
ment rate, these people are skilled craftsmen, and such a program would help
get some of them back to work.
But we don't foresee a figure as high as that forecast by Mr. Meany. As a mat-
ter of fact, we are convinced—with the tax reductions that we have proposed
and that I think the Congress will approve—we believe with the other actions
that we are taking, unemployment, the rate of unemployment will gradually
go down at the end of 1975 and be improved in 1976.
ENERGY PROGRAM
[6.] Q. Mr. President, in view of your answer to Mr. Cormier, in your
talks at Houston and here today, did you hear any convincing arguments that
might make you modify your energy proposals, and if so, which and how?
THE PRESIDENT. There was one question raised by individuals both in and
out of government, both in Houston as well as in Topeka, about one provision.
And that is whether or not, as a part of the windfall profits tax, there ought
to be a provision for a plowback—which means that if a company derives rev-
enue from their oil and gas developments, could they plow those revenues back
into further exploration and development and thereby avoid a tax on those
revenues or those profits.
This was a very close call at the time I made the decision when we put
this program together. The Congress is in the process—or I hope it will
soon be in the process—of taking up my energy program. There ought to
be ample opportunity for the proponents and the opponents to state their
views and convince the Congress one way or another.
I can understand some justification for the plowback provision. I don't think
it is a serious change in my proposal, but I will point out to the Congress that if
they incorporate the plowback provision, it will probably mean a loss of about
$3 to $4 billion annually in tax revenues to the Federal Government, and if so,
there will be less money to return to energy users than the figure that I have
recommended.
But there is, on the other hand, a good argument that a plowback provision
might stimulate more production, so it is a very close call. And although I favor
"AFL-CIO president George Meany had appeared on CBS News' "Face the Nation" on February 9, 1975.
224
