[32]
January 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
has been that some of the long-term public works projects are not as helpful in
meeting an acute problem of unemployment as the public service employment
legislation.
Nevertheless, there is a provision in this act to give some funding—I think it
is $150 million—for relatively short-term public works projects that can be
implemented or executed rather quickly. So, there is new legislation; there are
funds on hand to meet some of your acute problems.
The long-term unemployment problem we face is one that has to be corrected
by making our economy more healthy, and the actions that I have recommended,
the tax cut of $12 billion to be rebated to the taxpayers by June 1, if Congress acts
by April 1, should give a shot in the arm.
The $4 billion help as far as business is concerned, if Congress acts, ought to
accelerate plant modernization and equipment improvement. This, of course,
should have a beneficial impact on unemployment.
I am sure that Frank Zarb, the head of FEA, or Secretary Morton, who is in
charge of the energy task force or energy committee, mentioned to you the pay-
back to State and local units of government for the added energy costs if the
Congress approves the proposal that I have for increasing the import duties on
fuel oil or the refinery tax on crude oil of $2 a barrel.
We expect to collect roughly $30 to $31 billion from that, plus the windfall
tax profits on the profits made by the oil refiners. And out of that $30 to $31
billion we have allocated $2 billion to be returned to the States and local units
of government to reimburse you for your added costs because of higher costs of
energy.
This will be rebated to you on the general revenue sharing formula basis. In
other words, assume there is $2 billion. It will go back to State and local units of
government on that formula basis.
In addition, I might add that in the budget that I am submitting, the legisla-
tive program I am recommending for this next fiscal year, I am proposing that
we extend for 5 years the general revenue sharing legislation.
I think it has worked. It has worked because all or most of you have tried to
make it work, and the net result is, in my opinion, it ought to be extended for
5-plus years.
I trust that you will have a constructive impact on the Congress in making
sure that that recommendation is enacted into law. [Laughter]
In the process of putting together the economic program, I had to make some
hard decisions. All of you make up your budgets at the State and local level,
and you have had to do the same.
52
