April 10
[179]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
179
Address Before a Joint Session of the Congress Reporting on
United States Foreign Policy. April 10, 1975
Mr. Speaker, Mr. President, distinguished guests, my very good friends in the
Congress, and fellow Americans:
I stand before you tonight after many agonizing hours in very solemn
prayers for guidance by the Almighty. In my report on the state of the Union
in January, I concentrated on two subjects which were uppermost in the
minds of the American people-urgent actions for the recovery of our economy
and a comprehensive program to make the United States independent of
foreign sources of energy.
I thank the Congress for the action that it has taken thus far in my response
for economic recommendations. I look forward to early approval of a national
energy program to meet our country's long-range and emergency needs in
the field of energy.
Tonight it is my purpose to review our relations with the rest of the world in
the spirit of candor and consultation which I have sought to maintain with
my former colleagues and with our countrymen from the time that I took
office. It is the first priority of my Presidency to sustain and strengthen the
mutual trust and respect which must exist among Americans and their Gov-
ernment if we are to deal successfully with the challenges confronting us both
at home and abroad.
The leadership of the United States of America since the end of World War
II has sustained and advanced the security, well-being, and freedom of millions
of human beings besides ourselves. Despite some setbacks, despite some mis-
takes, the United States has made peace a real prospect for us and for all nations.
I know firsthand that the Congress has been a partner in the development and
in the support of American foreign policy, which five Presidents before me
have carried forward with changes of course but not of destination.
The course which our country chooses in the world today has never been
of greater significance for ourselves as a nation and for all mankind. We build
from a solid foundation. Our alliances with great industrial democracies in
Europe, North America, and Japan remain strong with a greater degree of
consultation and equity than ever before.
With the Soviet Union we have moved across a broad front toward a more
stable, if still competitive, relationship. We have begun to control the spiral
of strategic nuclear armaments.
459
