May 1
[233]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
assure you we will try to work with you in the mutual efforts that can be helpful
to ourselves as well as to others.
I trust that the President can come here sometime in the future. We are very
proud of our relationship with him and very anxious that he come and visit us.
May I extend to you, Mr. Prime Minister, on behalf of the American people,
the warmest welcome and the very best wishes. And to you and your party, and
particularly to your President, a toast at this time.
To the people of Tunisia and to you, Mr. Prime Minister, and to the President.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:15 p.m. in the
State Dining Room at the White House.
Prime Minister Nouira spoke in French. His
remarks were translated by an interpreter as follows:
Mr. President:
I am deeply touched by the very flattering remarks
that you have just addressed to me, remarks which,
beyond myself, I know are directed to President
Bourguiba, founder of new Tunisia, and to the
Tunisian people.
I thank you most kindly and I want to express
how deep is my joy to be in this great, generous,
and hospitable land. The honor and the pleasure that
I feel today are shared equally by the members of my
delegation. I should like to express our gratitude
for your kind invitation as well as for the very
warm welcome extended to us.
The century-long relations between our two coun-
tries, interrupted by the colonial interlude, have
known, since Tunisia became independent, a new
impulse in the very harmonious development. My
visit, Mr. President, is not only to be viewed within
the framework of the very strong and traditional
friendship which is the mark of our relationship but
it reflects also the very high degree of respect and
mutual esteem between our two Governments and
our two people.
It is that our two countries have had in common
from the very beginning a deep attachment to the
ideals of peace, liberty, and justice. And so it was
that from the very first years of independence of
Tunisia, we found together, in a disinterested and
fruitful cooperation, a very fertile ground to go
together towards the concrete achievement of our
special vision of man and society.
Tunisia, along these lines, is pledged to build its
future, relying first and foremost upon her own
resources, fully aware of the fact that development is
first and foremost a national matter. Tunisians are
investing considerable efforts to bring their own
country out of its stage of undevelopment and to
catch up the lag between our country and industrial-
ized nations. The proportion of our national product
which is devoted to investments, the level of saving
in the country, cutting down national consumption,
all those have reached very high degrees.
Under the impetus of President Bourguiba, Tu-
nisia is at work. Stability, union, and progress have
never been as evident as they are today, nor have
they been as reassuring as they are today.
Haven of peace and land of action, Tunisia, over
the span of very few years, carried out substantial
progress in a number of different areas. We feel that
economic and social problems cannot be separated
from national security considerations. The solution
to be found to these problems is therefore the first
line of defense. That is why employment, overall
development and speeded-up development, and im-
proving the standard of living are our priority
objectives.
In the fulfillment of this enthusiastic task which
aims at giving man the potential to fulfill his own
self fully, Tunisia, while it calls on its own resources,
requests the aid of its friendly nations.
I must stress here that the United States has been
of those who were first to respond to our appeal. The
assistance that the great American people has given
us has been a substantial aid. It has adapted and it
has evolved constantly to fit very closely with the
various stages of our development, to the national
character of Tunisia, and to the psychological and
human environment of our country. Faithful to
an ideal and to a long tradition of support and
assistance-yesterday vis-a-vis Europe, and today for
the countries of the Third World-the successive
administrations and Congresses of the United States,
who have led your great Nation, have always advo-
cated and implemented a consistent policy of very
close cooperation with Tunisia.
There remains much to be done to fully attain
the objectives of creation of wealth and dissemina-
tion of well-being that Tunisia has set for itself.
The contribution of our friends remains indispens-
able to the extent that they are the necessary com-
plement to our own efforts and to the extent that,
through technology and science transfer, they con-
tribute to giving our development a new dimension
and a determinant impulse.
Mr. President, whether we talk about our own
623
