April 18
[195]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Congress declared independence—the people from this part of the 13 colonies
enacted, or passed, or approved a declaration of independence some 6 months
previously. I congratulate you as the ancestors of those people who had the
strength and the foresight a good many years ago to take that important step in
establishing our great country.
Now, I know all of the schoolchildren want to hurry back, and so I won't
detain you any longer. If I have any influence with your teachers—and I
probably don't—I will give you all an A-plus, and I will do that whether you
are a Democrat or a Republican.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:59 p.m. on the
steps of the State Capitol. In his opening remarks,
he referred to George Roberts, speaker of the house
of representatives, and Alf E. Jacobsen, president of
the senate, New Hampshire General Court (State
legislature).
195
Address Before a Joint Session of the New Hampshire General
Court. April 18, 1975
Thank you very much, Mel. Governor Thomson, Mr. Speaker, Mr. President,
Members of the United States House of Representatives and Senate, my old and
dear friend, Senator Norris Cotton, Governor Longley and Governor Salmon,
distinguished guests of the General Court, visitors:
It is a great privilege and a great pleasure for me to be in this historic cham-
ber. I wish to express a deep personal gratitude to Governor Thomson for his
very warm welcome. I am most thankful and most appreciative.
I am also deeply grateful for the opportunity to join all of the members of
the State legislature. I spent, as the Governor has indicated, some 25-plus years
in the House of Representatives. I think those of us who have had an oppor-
tunity to serve in a State legislative or a Federal legislative branch have had
an opportunity unique in the history of not only our lives but our country.
Serving people in a legislative branch is a wonderful, wonderful experience.
I do want to thank the people of New Hampshire, both in Manchester and
in Concord and others, for their very warm welcome. I have said it several
times, but it bears, perhaps, repeating.
A good many years ago, back in the late 1930's, I came up to New England—
to New Hampshire and to Vermont and to Maine—and tried to learn to ski.
And I recall with some pain, my first experience going up to Tuckerman's
511
