[79]
February 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
usual significance-all of you have done a fine job. And on behalf of 213 million
other Americans, let me express my gratitude for them as well as for myself.
I do want to say also a word of appreciation to Bill Saxbe, who became the
Attorney General at a very difficult time. I knew Bill Saxbe as a Member of
the Congress. I knew him when he was attorney general for the State of Ohio.
And I wish to compliment Bill on the job that he did, again, during a period
of great difficulty.
Obviously, he has new and difficult chores, but they are equally important,
representing our country in another land almost halfway around the world, a
country of some 600 million people, a vitally important country, not only in that
part of the world but elsewhere.
And, Bill, I am sure that I can speak for all of you in this Great Hall and all
that worked with you in wishing you the very, very best on this new mission.ยน
I was reviewing with the new Attorney General some of his past activities.
And all of a sudden it occurred to me that although he had gone to the Univer-
sity of Chicago as an undergraduate and gotten his legal degree from the
University of Chicago Law School, he and I appeared in New Haven in the
fall of 1935.
He came with a much more distinguished record, as a graduate of the Univer-
sity of Chicago and its law school, and I came to Yale as a graduate of the
University of Michigan with a job as an assistant football coach.
I struggled for a couple of years to try and convince the Yale Law School that
they should admit me and struggled with the department of athletics to convince
me that I could do both. All of the time, Ed, of course, was adding to his
illustrious career as a legal scholar.
He went on to great achievements in the legal profession, the Department of
Justice, as, subsequently, the dean of the University of Chicago Law School, and
finally as the president of a great educational institution, the University of
Chicago.
I struggled and finally got through law school. And it is, I think, a wonderful
experience for me to have the privilege, on this fine morning, to participate in a
ceremony where the new Attorney General will be sworn in to a very important
job in this country, a responsibility of carrying out with conviction and dedica-
tion, integrity, the laws of the United States, protecting the rights of individuals,
protecting the rights of the Government, and making the Department the great
Department that it has been and must be if all of our citizens are to have faith in
the laws of our land.
1 William B. Saxbe was sworn in as U.S. Ambassador to India on February 3, 1975.
204
