[138]
March 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
the very few times it has in modern times. Are you personally satisfied, from
the standpoint of ending the recession, with the speed or with the rate of growth
in the money supply in this country?
THE PRESIDENT. I met with Arthur Burns, the head of the Federal Reserve,
last week. He, of course, is the head of a very autonomous part of our Federal
Government, but I do meet with him frequently to get the benefit of his views
on our economic circumstances.
I did ask what was the situation, because there had been criticism such as
you have indicated. It was pointed out to me by him—and there were a number
of charts that were shown which show the facts to be contrary to the facts that
you have stated—that M1, M2, M3, M4, M5, M6, and M-all of them show an
increase, and I am one who has great faith in Dr. Burns.
We are showing an increase in the money supply. There will be an adequate
money supply available for the current economic circumstances we face, and
there will be an adequate money supply to meet the problems we have down
the road.
INTEREST RATES
[9.] Q. Mr. President, I don't know what Dr. Burns' charts showed you
about long-term interest rates which, as you know, are the principal factor in
capital formation, but I want to ask you this: A lot of people, a lot of econo-
mists, are worried that Dr. Burns and Mr. Greenspan, and so forth, are going
to take this thing down just as far as they can and wring the last bit of inflation
out of it that they can and then try to turn it around. Are you satisfied—or what
confidence do you have that we won't go so far with this thing that we can't
turn it around?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, of course, we have made substantial progress in trying
to win the battle against inflation.
Last October, the rate of inflation was something like 13 percent. The last
figures released about 3 weeks ago showed it was down to 7.2 percent on an
annualized basis.
Now, in the charts that I also looked at-it showed that short-term interest
rates had gone from something like 13 percent down to about 6 percent, and it
showed that the trend on long-term interest rates was also a favorable one, going
more slowly down than the short-term interest rates. But the trend is encourag-
ing, and if we act responsibly and don't have a larger deficit than I have proposed
in the Federal Government, so that the Federal Government does not go in and
sop up all of the money that is needed, we can keep the trend in long-term
interest rates going down.
366
