[208]
April 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
208
Address at a Tulane University Convocation.
April 23, 1975
Mr. President, President Hurley, Senator Johnston, my good friends from the
House of Representatives, Eddie Hébert, Dave Treen, Lindy Boggs, Lieutenant
Governor Fitzmorris, students, faculty, alumni, and guests of Tulane University:
It is really a great privilege and a very high honor to have an opportunity of
participating again in a student activity at Tulane University. And for this op-
portunity, I thank you very, very much.
Each time that I have been privileged to visit Tulane, I have come away
newly impressed with the intense application of the student body to the great
issues of our time, and I am pleased tonight to observe that your interest hasn't
changed one bit.
As we came into the building tonight, I passed a student who looked up from
his book and said, “A journey of a thousand miles begins but with a single
step." To indicate my interest in him, I asked, "Are you trying to figure out how
to get your goal in life?" He said, "No, I am trying to figure out how to get to
the Super Dome in September." [Laughter] Well, I don't think there is any
doubt in my mind that all of you will get to the Super Dome. Of course, I hope
it is to see the Green Wave [Tulane University] have their very best season on
the gridiron. I have sort of a feeling that you wouldn't mind making this another
year in which you put the Tigers [Louisiana State University] in your tank.
When I had the privilege of speaking here in 1968 at your “Directions '68”
forum, I had no idea that my own career and our entire Nation would move so
soon in another direction. And I say again, I am extremely proud to be in-
vited back.
I am impressed, as I undoubtedly said before-but I would reiterate it to-
night-by Tulane's unique distinction as the only American university to be
converted from State sponsorship to private status. And I am also impressed by
the Tulane graduates who serve in the United States Congress: Bennett
Johnston, Lindy Boggs, Dave Treen.
Eddie Hébert, when I asked him the question whether he was or not, and
he said he got a special degree: Dropout '28. [Laughter]
But I think the fact that you have these three outstanding graduates testifies
to the academic excellence and the inspiration of this historic university, rooted
in the past with its eyes on the future.
568
