[356]
June 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much, Gregory, and thank all of you. I never
made it as a Governor-[laughter]—so I am glad to be a part of the Society of
Governors. And I thank you for thinking of me, and I will make an effort, I
will do my best to try and read it.
Thank you, and good luck to you.
I congratulate the YMCA. I congratulate the Reader's Digest. And most im-
portantly, I congratulate all of
you.
The very best to you.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:53 a.m. in the Cabinet Room at the White House.
357
Remarks About Proposed Legislation To Increase Enriched
Uranium Production.
June 26, 1975
I WILL read a statement before signing the message or messages that will go
to the Congress.
Because our oil and natural gas resources are fast being depleted, we must
rely more and more on nuclear power as a major source of energy for the
future.
Today, I am asking the Congress to join me in embarking the Nation on an
exciting new course of action which will help to assure the energy independence
that we need and significantly strengthen our economy at home at the same
time. I am referring to the establishment of an entirely new competitive industry
to provide uranium enrichment service for nuclear power reactors.
The legislation that I am seeking will reinforce the world leadership we now
enjoy in uranium enrichment technology. It will help ensure the continued
availability of reliable energy for America. It will move America one big step
nearer energy independence.
This legislation will insure that the billions of dollars required for the con-
struction of new enrichment plants will be borne by the private sector, not by
the American taxpayer. But all of us will benefit directly from the service which
private enterprise will provide.
I urge the Congress to act swiftly and favorably on this important new energy
initiative. With this comprehensive approach, the United States can reopen its
uranium enrichment "order book," reassert its supremacy as the world's major
882
