April 3
[166]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
certain limited authority to protect American lives. And to that extent, I will
use that law.
VIETNAMESE WAR ORPHANS
[4.] Q. Mr. President, despite your statement here this morning about war
orphans, there apparently is a lot of redtape in Washington. A San Diego man,
who is trying to get four Vietnamese children out of that country, has received
hundreds of calls from people all over the Western United States wanting to
help, even adopt children. But despite this outpouring of compassion by the
American people, all he gets in Washington is, “No way. There is nothing that
can be done." Why is he running into this problem if we are trying to help?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, having had some experience in the past with the Fed-
eral bureaucracy when we had a similar problem involving Korean orphans, I
understand the frustration and the problem.
But I am assured that all bureaucratic redtape is being eliminated to the maxi-
mum degree and that we will make a total effort, as I indicated in my opening
statement, to see to it that South Vietnamese war orphans are brought to the
United States.
Q. Do you think something can be done before it is too late for many of
them?
THE PRESIDENT. I can only say we will do what has to be done, what can be
done, as a practical matter. I cannot guarantee that every single South Viet-
namese war orphan will get here, but I can assure you that we intend to do
everything possible in that humanitarian effort.
INFLATION
[5.] Q. Mr. President, the Gallup poll shows that a very healthy majority
of the American people, 60 percent of the American people, are more concerned
about the high cost of living than they are about any other issue, including the
recession and international developments.
I would like to ask you, in view of that, if Congress does not respond to your
repeated appeals to hold down spending and not exceed a level that would pro-
duce a deficit of $60 billion, if they don't do that, and Government borrowing
increases to cover the deficit, do you have any plans—is there anything you plan
to do beyond just these appeals to Congress to prevent a resurgence of inflation?
The President. Well, as I clearly indicated last Saturday night when I
approved the Tax Reduction Act, I have drawn the line on additional Federal
spending. That is as far as we dare go. If we go beyond that, we amplify the
potentialities for a resurgence of double-digit inflation. I intend to appeal to the
415
