[186]
April 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
I
allies, to work with the Warsaw Pact nations toward reductions in forces which
will increase the prospects for international stability.
It is of fundamental importance to both the United States and to the world
that the strategic balance be maintained, and strategic nuclear forces are the
foundation of our defense. We will work toward further strategic arms limi-
tations; we will maintain a strategic arms balance. Neither we nor our allies
can afford the consequences if this fundamental balance shifts against us. I
promise you that no defense budget I submit to the Congress will ever sell us
short or shift the balance against the United States of America.
I respectfully call upon each and every Member of the Congress, House and
Senate, to make the same pledge, for our survival as a nation could well depend
upon it. I call upon you to let your Senators and Congressmen know how you
feel individually and collectively. Let us never forget this: that our Pledge of
Allegiance is to one nation indivisible—not one nation indefensible!
In the area of conventional forces, we also confront some difficult challenges.
Our troops in Europe, for example, are a key element in shielding Europe from
military attacks or pressure of one kind or another. Present force levels are
necessary to maintain a satisfactory conventional military balance between the
Alliance on the one hand and the Warsaw Pact nations on the other. Unilateral
reductions by the United States would upset that balance and constitute a major
political change. The United States has agreed with our allies that there will be
no unilateral troop reductions, except through mutual negotiations.
Our troop levels in that part of the world are not an obstacle to improved
East-West relations in Europe. On the contrary, a stable military balance has
been the starting point for hopeful new diplomacy.
For their part, the Europeans contribute the largest part of the conventional
defense of the Alliance. Unilateral U.S. reductions would undercut their efforts
and would undermine confidence in the United States for the support of the
Alliance.
There are two other crucial areas of conventional forces necessary to maintain
our side of the strategic balance: one, our long-range airlift capability, and sea-
power.
If we are to sustain our ability to react appropriately to threats to our interests
from faraway shores, we may need to increase our already considerable ability
to airlift troops and supplies long distances.
The United States and its allies depend heavily on the freedom of the seas
for trade and for commerce. Thus, it is vital for us to maintain a full range of
capabilities on the many oceans of the world.
484
