May 7
[247]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
with present wartime benefits. Families of those who die in service will receive
the same service-connected benefits available to families of veterans of wartime
service.
The period between the cessation of hostilities and the termination of eligibil-
ity for wartime veterans benefits has already extended longer in the case of
Vietnam than for any prior war. For virtually all of our World War I military
personnel, the benefit eligibility period ended with the November 11, 1918,
Armistice. For World War II veterans, eligibility was terminated on most
benefits December 31, 1946, some 16 months after the surrender of Japan. A
proclamation [3080] by President Eisenhower established a January 31, 1955,
termination date for most of the Korean conflict benefits. The proclamation
followed the signing of the Korean Armistice by 18 months.
I believe the actions I have taken today make an equitable distinction be-
tween those who serve in time of war and those who serve in time of peace.
These actions also guard the Nation against unwarranted future expenditures
and will result in cumulative savings of $1.5 billion over the next 5 years after
termination.
247
Letter to the Speaker of the House and the President of the
Senate Transmitting Proposed Legislation To Terminate the
Eligibility Period for Vietnam Era Veterans Education
Benefits. May 7, 1975
I AM transmitting today a proposed bill "To amend title 38, United States Code,
to set a termination date for veterans educational benefits under Chapter 34
and 36 of such title, and for other purposes."
The bill would terminate the eligibility period for GI Bill education and
training benefits for persons who will be entering peacetime voluntary military
service on or after July 1, 1975.
I have today also issued a Proclamation which fixes the period of Vietnam
service as beginning on August 5, 1964, and ending on May 7, 1975, for certain
wartime benefits.
The effect of these actions is similar to those terminating wartime veterans
benefits following the cessation of World War I, World War II, and the Korean
War hostilities.
655
