[7]
January 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
I fully endorse the goal of speedy justice, but I am concerned about the sanc-
tions imposed by the bill. If its time limits are not met, section 3162 provides for
dismissal of the indictment and permits the trial judge to decide whether a sub-
sequent reindictment would be permitted. I believe that dismissal without
precluding reindictment would constitute an ample sanction to insure that
prompt trials do take place. I hope that the sound discretion of our Federal
district court judges will minimize the possibility that a defendant will be
unnecessarily exonerated from punishment for a serious offense without ever
having undergone a trial.
I also take this opportunity to call for prompt Congressional action on the
recommendation of the Judicial Conference of the United States for the creation
of 51 additional Federal district court judgeships in 33 separate judicial districts
across the country. This measure recognizes that justice delayed is too often
justice denied. However, without a commitment to meet the increased demands
which the bill will impose on our Federal judiciary, as well as prosecutors, its
benefits become transparent.
The Judicial Conference recommendation was advanced in 1972, and Senate
hearings incorporating the proposal were conducted in 1973. To date, however,
this legislation has not been scheduled for action. I hope that it will be a priority
item for the 94th Congress.
NOTE: As enacted, S. 754, approved January 3, 1975, is Public Law 93-619 (88 Stat. 2076).
8
Statement on Signing the Deepwater Port Act of 1974.
January 4, 1975
I HAVE approved H.R. 10701, the Deepwater Port Act of 1974.
Since taking office, I have urged on several occasions that the Congress give
high priority to our executive branch request for legislation dealing with deep-
water ports. I considered this an important step in our national effort to provide
an adequate supply of energy at reasonable prices, and I therefore commend the
93d Congress for completing work on the measure before adjournment.
Deepwater ports can provide the safest, most efficient, and least expensive
means for transporting petroleum supplies that we obtain from foreign sources.
This act establishes the necessary legal framework for licensing the construction
and operation of port facilities in naturally deep water distant from our coast-
lines, where supertankers can unload their cargo into underwater pipelines.
8
