May 23
[276]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
indication: Senator Mansfield-the Democratic leader in the United States Sen-
ate—has always, in the past, been demanding and favoring a withdrawal of
U.S. military personnel from NATO. Just the other day, he publicly stated that
he was reassessing his position and wondered if it was not now the time to
perhaps keep our strength there until certain other circumstances developed.
During the debate in the House of Representatives, the Democratic leader,
Congressman O'Neill of Massachusetts, said this was not the time or not the
place or not the number for the United States to withdraw troops from overseas.
What I am saying is, we may be entering a new era, an era that will be very
visible and very substantive in showing the United States capability and will
to not only do something in a short period of time but to stick with it.
MR. BRANDON. Are you taking a Congressional delegation with you to
Brussels?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I am not.
MR. BRANDON. I was wondering whether from the European point of view—
I mean, I don't want to butt into Presidential business—it might not be very
helpful for Members of Congress to explain the situation in Congress, and it
may also have some advantages vice versa.
THE PRESIDENT. Let me answer it in this way: We have a continuous flow
of Members of the Congress, Senators and Congressmen, traveling to Europe,
and I think it is good. They meet periodically with their counterparts in various
European countries. So, there is no doubt that the attitude of Congress will be
well explained to heads of state and to other parliamentarians. I don't think
it is necessary to take on this trip Members of the House and Senate.
MR. DE MEDICI. May I focus one moment on the shade of difference between the
political and the military type of assurances the United States can give to Europe?
Europeans are concerned not as much at the link between the American security
and the European security but between American security and what we may call
the future of European democracies, which are in trouble in some cases. How
do you look at the all-political problem from this point of view?
THE PRESIDENT. We, of course, have to be most careful that we don't involve
ourselves in the internal politics of any country, European or otherwise. We, of
course, hope that there is stability in any and all governments, in Europe par-
ticularly, and that the political philosophy of the party that controls the country
is one that has a relationship to our own political philosophy, not in a partisan
way but in a philosophical way. And when we see some elements in some coun-
tries gaining ground—the Communist element, for example—it does concern us.
I think Portugal is a good example. We, of course, were encouraged by the fine
707
