[36]
January 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
say that the requirement that requires that people who want food stamps pay
30 percent of their income is also a proper requirement.
GENERAL SECRETARY BREZHNEV OF THE SOVIET UNION
[23.] Q. Mr. President, in view of the rapport you seem to have established
with Mr. Brezhnev at Vladivostok, can you shed any light on the conflicting
reports about his current political and personal health? Specifically, have you had
any direct contact with him since your trip?
The President. I have not had any direct contact. We have communicated
on several occasions, but we have had no personal or direct contact.
GASOLINE RATIONING
[24.] Q. Mr. President, can we assume by your comments here and objec-
tions to gas rationing, that you would veto a gas rationing program if it were
to come to the White House for you to sign?
THE PRESIDENT. I have said that I would not hesitate to veto any additional
spending programs or new programs that would cause new spending. I have
pretty well outlined the objections which I think are valid against any gas
rationing program.
Now, if the Congress wants to require mandatory gas rationing, that is a
judgment they can make, as bad as I think it would be; and a program of that
kind that was a superficial answer, in my judgment, I would veto.
FUEL OIL PRICES
[25.] Q. Sir, as we all know, the State of the Union says that the price of
fuel oil in this country is so great now that people cannot pay it. They are telling
their Congressmen this. You propose to put an additional price on that on Feb-
ruary 1 and then give them back, as an offset, a rebate in tax in May and Sep-
tember. How are the people going to pay these fuel bills in the meantime?
THE PRESIDENT. I think you have not analyzed the energy tax reduction in
full. The money that would go back to individuals—the $19 billion—because of
added energy costs, would go back to them through the change in the withhold-
ing tax and by-to the poorest—an $80 payment per person, any individual who
was an adult.
So, I think the payback or the reduction in taxes would coincide with any
added energy payments they would have to make.
WAGE, PRICE, AND PROFIT CONTROLS
[26.] Q. Mr. President, the figures show that last year the United States had
an inflation of 12.2 percent-the highest in its peacetime history. You have
70
