[237]
May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
As most of you know from the schedule, this has been a very long, busy, and
exhausting day—as well as week—at the White House. I spent the morning
working on my new book, "A Week in the Life of John Hersey." ¹ [Laughter]
Then, in the afternoon, I talked to Sonny Jurgensen. Now that he is no longer
with the Washington Redskins, I suggested to Sonny that he run for Congress. I
figure if there is one thing that Congress can use, it is a little help in passing.
[Laughter]
You know, we are also redecorating. I am sure you have all noticed that the
White House is getting a new coat of paint. The painter says it is leak-proof. I
sure hope so. [Laughter]
But I do have one favor to ask of all the White House correspondents sitting
here tonight. Every few years we do have to paint the White House. It is done for
reasons of maintenance, aesthetics, and appearance. So please, would you just
refer to this as a paint job, not a coverup? [Laughter]
Now, before I do close, I would like to make a few acknowledgements, if I
may. I want to thank Martin Agronsky for giving Pete Lisagor the night off.
Peter, as you know, is one of Washington's foremost television personalities. It's
not unusual for him to be on five or six shows a week, in addition to lectures,
talks, and personal appearances. And every time he appears he gets an enormous
amount of fan mail. Pete was telling me that just this morning he got a postcard
saying, "Having a wonderful time. Wish you were here." It was from the Chicago
Daily News. [Laughter]
This has been a wonderful evening for Betty and for me, and we thank you
all for it. You know, there is a great deal written and said about the First Family.
This designation usually refers to Betty, to me, one daughter, and three sons.
But to me, it doesn't have this very limited connotation.
I see the First Family as an extended family, one that draws in and includes all
of the men and women who make the White House a living, breathing, and
functioning body. It encompasses a handful of Fords, completely and com-
fortably surrounded by staff and press alike.
We are not just Jerry, Betty, Susan, Jack, Steve, and Mike, but Bob, Helen, Ron,
Frank, Fran, and a few hundred others as well. We work together. We laugh
together. We exchange ideas, facts, and speculations. We interact. We cannot
function well without each other. This is the stuff that families are made of, and
like all families, we have our disagreements. We take in and assimilate individual
1 The President was alluding to an article by John Hersey which appeared in the April 20, 1975, New
York Times Magazine. The article covered the President's day-to-day activities for the week beginning
March 10.
636
