January 22
[39]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
our own renewed economic vitality, we can help bring prosperity and stability
to a troubled world.
I am old enough to know that we have faced hard times before, individually
and collectively and as a nation. And as I look back over the pages of history, in
the time in which I have lived, we have met those challenges.
I was thinking this afternoon, I can remember a few Christmases in my own
youth when about the only thing we had to offer each other as a family was the
love we happened to feel in our hearts and the faith that together we could see
things through to a better world. You know what it did? It made us work
harder, study harder, and in a way, I think, it brought out those kind of qualities
of strength and character that none of us in those days thought we had.
Oh, I know this may sound a bit nostalgic-it does not have much economics
in it--but if the economic problems could be solved by dry theories alone, there
would not be any economic problems left, just a lot of surplus theories and a
lot of unemployed economists looking for new ways to ply their trade.
I happen to believe in a free economy. I believe it unquestionably has the
stamina and the resiliency to recover if we act sensibly and decisively and
promptly to get through the present crisis.
I said in the State of the Union Address that there is a vital need for partner-
ship. There must not only be partnership between the Congress and the execu-
tive branch but also between the Federal Government and the American people.
I also called for a continuing strong program of voluntary action.
I would like to emphasize that particular point again. The plans I have sug-
gested for the economy and energy rely on a freedom of choice-freedom for
every American to decide how to conserve on the one hand while still meeting
his basic needs. Without the voluntary cooperation of every American, no gov-
ernment plan can really work. It is just that simple.
Each of you, as an outstanding member of the American business community,
has a key part to play in this great national undertaking. We need your knowl-
edge, your resourcefulness, and most of all, your faith and your confidence.
With faith in ourselves and confidence in our country, we have performed
what amounted to miracles in the past. We need no miracle today, just the kind
of calm willingness to work and sacrifice which has carried us through much
tougher times before. And I happen to think it will again.
Together, we can turn these misdirected trends around-turn them around
and see America on a new course toward a prosperity and a period of progress.
Thank you very kindly.
81
