March 17
[137]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
tinues to be proud of America's partnership with other nations and who makes
no apology for the United States of America. America's goodness and America's
greatness speak for themselves. I believe in this Nation and in our capacity to
resolve our difficulties at home without turning our back on the rest of the
world.
Let me share a personal experience. I was elected to the Congress in the after-
math of World War II. A nonpartisan foreign policy was emerging at that time.
America realized that politics must stop at the water's edge. Our fate was linked
to the well-being of other free nations. We became the first nation to provide
others with economic assistance as a national policy. Foreign aid was an Amer-
ican invention or an American project of which we can be justifiably proud.
Today, as I look back, I am grateful for the opportunity to serve in our Gov-
ernment during the third quarter of the 20th century. These past 25 years, while
not perfect, were incomparably better for humanity than either of the two pre-
vious quarters of this century. There was no world war nor global depression.
Major nations achieved détente. Many new nations obtained independence.
There has been an explosion of hope, freedom, and human progress at home
as well as abroad. America's role, considered in fair context, was a catalyst for
change, for growth, and for betterment.
The Marshall Plan, unprecedented in world history, restored a war-ravaged
Europe. Even earlier, U.S. relief and rehabilitation activities during World
War II and assistance to Greece and to Turkey after the war had provided
precedents and experience in America's overseas assistance.
In the same year that I came to Congress, 1949, President Truman advanced
Point 4, an innovative, remarkable concept providing technical assistance to
developing nations. It brought new American ideas and technology to people
hitherto unable to benefit from advances in health, agriculture, and education.
The Food for Peace Act, designed to use America's agricultural abundance
to assist others, was a product of the Eisenhower administration. In the late
fifties, we created the Development Loan program to help others help them-
selves. In 1961, the Congress established the Agency for International Develop-
ment to consolidate and to administer the various activities and agencies that
were carrying out the will of the Congress and the President at that time.
Programs to help people in the developing countries are an expression of
America's great compassion, and we should be proud of them. But such aid is
also part of the continuing effort to achieve an enduring structure of world
peace. It is no longer a question of just the Third World. I am deeply concerned
by the problems of the fourth world, the very poorest world where from 400
355
