February 13
[90]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
gress will not only recognize the existence of the problem but agree that we
have to find a solution. We cannot afford—as I see it—any more wasted time.
And let me refer, if I might, to what has happened over the last several years.
I can recall very vividly when I was in the House of Representatives 3 years
ago, and people were talking about an energy problem, and recommendations in
good faith were made to solve it, and Congress held some hearings. And for all
intents and purposes, nothing developed, no real answer in the field of conserva-
tion, in the field of additional production.
We had the unfortunate crisis of the oil embargo in October of 1973. One
would have thought that that crisis would have precipitated effective action.
Again, recommendations; again, some minimal hearings-very little results.
And then I received on my desk in November of this last year a very sizable
document, which was the result of one full year of study by the best people from
all sides, with recommendations and options on what we should do as a gov-
ernment to meet the problem created by our energy crisis.
Well, we have analyzed, and we are in the process of debating the options.
Unfortunately—and I say this with real sadness—the bill that I recommended,
S. 594, 167 pages, is the compilation of the recommendations that I have made
to the Congress, with one or two exceptions that are in separate pieces of legis-
lation. But here is a comprehensive plan to meet the energy problem.
I say with some sadness that the Congress has been spending most of its
time—since this bill that I proposed was recommended—on a four-page bill.
It is called H.R. 1767, and the House of Representatives passed it by 300 and
something to 110, as I recollect.
But let me just read the title to you: "To suspend for a 90-day period the
authority of the President under Section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act.”
Now, if the Congress passes this four pages, takes 5 weeks or thereabouts, all
they will do is take a step backward. It would have been an awful lot more
productive if they had spent that 5 weeks looking at this bill, and if they find
something they want to delete or add to it, that is fine-or even better, if they
would present a comprehensive plan of their own. We don't say we have
all the wisdom, but we at least have a plan. And the Congress is wasting its time
on a four-page bill that would step backward. I think the time for action affirma-
tively has come.
So, to get moving, we have to begin now. Unless we do, our domestic oil
and gas supplies will continue to dwindle, and costly and unsure imports will
obviously grow. It is my judgment that we must take immediate steps to reduce
our oil consumption from overseas sources by 1 million barrels per day and,
241
