[239]
May 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
239
Statement on the Death of Ambassador Kenneth B. Keating.
May 5, 1975
KEN KEATING was an outstanding public servant and an old and valued
friend. He was my colleague in the Congress from New York State for 9 years,
and then went on to serve with distinction in the United States Senate.
With the conclusion of his Congressional years, Ken began another distin-
guished career, this time as a diplomat, ably representing America as Am-
bassador to both India and Israel. His integrity, dedication, and devotion to duty
made him a most valued public servant.
As United States representative in Tel Aviv for the past 2 years, Ambassador
Keating has played a critical role in the formulation and execution of our
policies in the Middle East. He was known by both Americans and Israelis for
his statesmanship, his gentle grace, and his commitment to peace.
Seldom has one man led a more versatile or useful public life. Mrs. Ford
joins with me in condolences to his family.
NOTE: Ambassador Keating served in India from 1969 to 1972 and in Israel from 1973 until his death on
May 5, 1975.
240
Remarks at a Ceremony Honoring Former Secretary of the
Treasury George P. Shultz. May 5, 1975
Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Members of the Cabinet, friends of
George Shultz:
It is a great pleasure and a real privilege for me to participate on this occasion
honoring George and, of course, Obie as well.
I'm here because I've had the benefit of the friendship of George Shultz. I'm
here because I think George Shultz has made a tremendous contribution, over
a long period of time, to good government, and obviously, he represents the
finest kind of citizenship. Over a period of about 10 years, George has served
more than one President in the fields of education, in the fields of labor-man-
agement relations, in the area of economics.
I was interested in reading George's biography. It tells the story, at the age of
12, George published a homemade newspaper. And after he got it put together,
he tried to sell it to a neighbor. The neighbor asked him what the price was.
638
