June 19
[341]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
These recommendations go to the very heart of the problem of handgun abuse.
If enacted, they should add significantly to the efforts of State and local law
enforcement authorities to prevent the criminal use of handguns.
There are several other areas in which Federal law and enforcement can be
improved to strike at those who have made crime a business.
The leaders of organized crime can be prosecuted under current Federal law
only when it can be shown that they participated in a specific offense, such as
gambling, loan-sharking or narcotics. A reformed criminal code should strike
directly at organized criminal activity by making it a Federal crime to operate
or control a racketeering syndicate. This revision will make the criminal law
apply to organized crime leaders who seek to conceal their role in the syndicate's
criminal activities.
Since current Federal laws restrict the government's ability to attack con-
sumer frauds, the statutes punishing fraud and theft should be revised to make
Federal prosecution more effective. Pyramid sales schemes-clever confidence
games, in other words—should be specifically prohibited. Federal jurisdiction
over these frauds should be extended to enable the government to move against
them on a nationwide basis.
The protection of constitutionally guaranteed civil rights is a primary duty of
the Federal government. Yet, a private citizen can be punished for violating con-
stitutional rights only if he acted in concert with others. Under current law,
even if a State official intentionally commits acts that violate an individual's con-
situtional rights, proof of these acts alone may be insufficient to secure a con-
viction. Restrictions which prevent our laws from protecting the constitutional
rights of Americans should be eliminated.
I am particularly concerned about the illegal trafficking in narcotics and
dangerous drugs. These crimes victimize the entire Nation, bringing personal
tragedy and family destruction to hundreds of thousands. In addition to the
human toll, the property crimes committed to finance addicts' drug habits are
estimated at $15 billion each year.
Federal, State and local governments must continue their vigorous law en-
forcement efforts aimed at major traffickers in narcotics and dangerous drugs.
This Administration is committed to maintaining a strong Federal Drug En-
forcement Administration to provide leadership in this fight. At the same time,
I continue to recognize our responsibility to provide compassionate treatment
and rehabiliation programs for the hapless victim of narcotics traffickers.
Recent evidence suggests an increase in the availability and use of dangerous
drugs in spite of the creation of special Federal agencies and massive Federal
849
