February 3
[64]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Congress has acted upon the budget in a piecemeal fashion, with far too little
attention to the total. The Congressional Budget and Impoundment Control Act,
passed last summer, mandates changes in the Federal budget and major reforms
in congressional procedures for dealing with it. Under the new procedures, the
Congress will have a larger and better-defined role in developing sound budget
and fiscal policies. Congressional organization and procedures will focus greater
attention on the budget totals early in the legislative process.
Major provisions of the act require greater attention to the future-year costs of
legislative proposals and ongoing programs, and establish a budget committee
in each Chamber and a Congressional Budget Office to aid Congress in its
consideration of budget recommendations. The shift of the fiscal year to an
October-to-September basis will give the Congress more time to complete action
on the budget before the fiscal year begins.
The act also provides for a closer working relationship between the Congress
and the executive branch in controlling outlays. I look forward to a new era of
fruitful cooperation between the legislative and executive branches on budgetary
matters, a cooperation that will enhance fiscal responsibility, make the budget a
more useful instrument of national policy, and promote a more careful allocation
of limited resources.
During the past six years, the budget has become increasingly forward-looking,
focusing attention on the future effects of budget proposals. The new act builds
upon this initiative with the requirement that the budget present more extensive
five-year projections of outlays and receipts. These projections indicate the large
natural increase in receipts resulting from rising incomes and profits as the
economy recovers. These increased receipts, coupled with prudent fiscal restraint,
will make it possible to avoid deficits that would be inflationary when the econ-
omy returns to high employment.
The Government strongly affects the economy in many ways not fully
reflected in the budget. These influences include tax expenditures such as those
that encourage homeownership and business investment; and the operations of
Federal or Government-sponsored enterprises, particularly in the credit field,
that are excluded from the budget. The new act recognizes the importance of
these factors by requiring that they be given greater consideration in connection
with the budget.
CONCLUSION
As we approach our national bicentennial, difficult challenges lie before us.
The recommendations in this budget address the Nation's problems in a direct,
161
