April 15
[187]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
pation that you can make—and many others we hope will make-in the
months and days ahead.
Ted, I am especially pleased with your kind observations and introduction.
Personally, I have always felt a very special affinity for the great State of
Alaska, because there is something about Alaska's weather that always makes
me a bit nostalgic.
Alaska's weather always reminds me of all those Democrats who used to say
it will be a cold day when Jerry Ford becomes President. Well, I might just
keep this cold wave going a little longer than they think. [Laughter]
Incidentally, you may be interested to know that another one of the Demo-
cratic candidates is getting ready to give up the race. I won't say who, but yes-
terday he told Bob Strauss, the Democratic National Chairman, “I am getting
very discouraged." You know Bob Strauss is a great guy and, as Mary Louise
knows, a fine chairman, and he is an optimist. He said, "Why?" And the candi-
date said, “Why? I will tell you why. In the last Gallup poll, 1,500 votes were
cast, and I got 13." Bob Strauss said, "This is no time to get superstitious.”
[Laughter]
Really, as I indicated at the outset, it is a great privilege and pleasure to be
here tonight. And in the great spirit of the times, let me welcome each and
every one of you to the Republican Party's first, no frills, economy, $1,000-a-
plate dinner.
But thinking positively, how often can each and every one of you go home
from a dinner like this and realize that every carrot you left on your plate cost
you $14.75?
But before proceeding one word further, I want to make an announcement—
and I haven't consulted with Betty-but she, you know, feels very strongly
about the Republican Party, as I do, and very strongly about equal rights. I
have her checkbook here. [Laughter] And by law, I am authorized to sign her
name. She has authorized me to sign her name for a $1,000 contribution for her
part in this dinner tonight.
But to prove my own willingness to be a participant—and I believe so strongly
in the Republican Party that I am as delighted as Betty is—and to set a precedent,
here is my check out of my bank account for the Republican cause.
Now, Mary Louise, I haven't filled in anything except our signatures, but I
will rely on your good judgment to do just that. I don't believe in freeloaders.
Well, obviously, I am delighted to see so many old friends here tonight, as
well as some new ones, both from the House as well as from the Senate. And I
congratulate those who are new in the legislative branch.
487
