June 30
[366]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
be another distinguished contribution in a very distinguished career in a wide
variety of areas.
It is my privilege now to ask Justice White to administer the oath to Am-
bassador Moynihan.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:40 p.m. in the Rose
Garden at the White House. Byron R. White, Asso-
ciate Justice of the Supreme Court, administered the
oath of office.
Ambassador Moynihan's response to the Presi-
dent's remarks is printed in the Weekly Compilation
of Presidential Documents (vol. 11, p. 694).
366
Remarks Upon Signing the Emergency Compensation and
Special Unemployment Assistance Extension Act of 1975.
June 30, 1975
I AM signing into law today H.R. 6900, the Emergency Compensation and
Special Unemployment Assistance Extension Act of 1975. This act will ensure
continued unemployment compensation benefits to Americans whose benefits
would have expired on July 1.
The unemployment compensation system is our most important means of
assistance for those Americans whose jobs have been lost as a result of economic
recession.
Fortunately, we are now seeing signs in the economy that the worst of the
downturn is over and that recovery has already begun. But we do know from
past experience that it will take time before the effects of the overall improve-
ment in the economy are reflected in substantial reductions in the unemploy-
ment rate.
We must, therefore, continue to provide support for those out of work as they
seek jobs. That is the purpose and the promise of the legislation I am signing
today.
In April, I proposed a bill to extend the availability of unemployment bene-
fits. Since then, the close coordination and cooperation between the Congress
and the Administration have resulted in the bill now before me.
I am gratified that as a result of this cooperative spirit, we will be able to
ensure that additional unemployment compensation benefits will continue to
be available to help ease the burden of the unemployed until they are back at
work again. I pledge the continued efforts of this Administration to speed that
day's arrival.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:05 p.m. at a cere-
mony in the Oval Office at the White House.
As enacted, H.R. 6900 is Public Law 94-45 (89
Stat. 236).
897
