[169]
April 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
believe me, it has proliferated. But in the process, we had more and more Fed-
eral employees and we had more and more Federal regulations.
I recall most vividly sitting there on many occasions and thinking to myself,
don't they realize that a government big enough to give us everything we want
is a government big enough to take from us everything we have? That is so true.
But in the process of trying to take a look at some of our Federal spending
problems, I want to assure to you that I am determined to stop the inflationary
impact of runaway spending.
But in the process of trying to achieve that result, I prefer conciliation with
the Congress. But as I said last Saturday in the remarks that I made to the
American people, I must draw a line at a fiscal 1976 deficit of $60 billion. That
figure shocked me, as I am sure it shocks you. But the alternative that is
inevitable if we don't show some restraint and good judgment is that it will be
not $60 billion, but 75, 90, or $100 billion. That is the choice.
Now, I was encouraged to hear the distinguished chairman of the Senate
Budget Committee, Senator Muskie, warn that a deficit of $100 billion might
ensue if brakes are not applied by the Congress. I applaud him and others,
regardless of political affiliation, who feel that we are facing a crisis. I think
we are.
Fortunately, our system is flexible and strong enough to work under great
stress. But the growth of some of these social assistance programs must remain
in a context that we can manage and not enter a new dimension that manages us.
An example of how spending undermines a viable society can be seen in one
of our great allies, Great Britain. They are striving to stop the momentum. But
let me assure you, I don't want—and I am sure you don't want to see the
United States, at some future date, in the same situation.
Now, in the struggle to preserve a free economy, individuals, not special inter-
est groups, will be the real allies. I refer to individual workers and individual pro-
fessional people. And I am confident that American individualism, regardless
of one's status in life, will rise to that challenge.
I happen to deeply believe in the concept of decentralization of government
power in providing wider discretionary accountability to locally elected officials
and their constituencies.
An example, of course, is the concept of what the good mayor and I know
as general revenue sharing. He and his fellow mayors worked with Governors
and us in the Congress to approve this legislation which, for the first time, gave
to local units of government and to the States Federal funds taken from tax-
434
