February 3
[64]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
is far too high and productivity has declined. At the same time, inflation, a serious
and growing problem for nearly a decade, continues to distort our economy
in major ways. Underlying these problems is the fact that we are far from self-
sufficient in energy production, and even with the measures I have proposed,
regaining the capacity for self-sufficiency will take years to achieve. Imported fuel
supplies have been interrupted once and remain vulnerable, and oil prices have
been increased fourfold.
The increased unemployment and continued price increases from which we
now suffer are problems we share with much of the rest of the world. The
roots of these problems are complex. The steep rise in the price of imported
oil, for example, while directly increasing prices, has also acted like a tax in-
crease by reducing the real income of American consumers and transferring
that income to oil exporting countries. Lower real incomes, combined with
consumer resistance to rising prices, has reduced the demand for goods in the
American marketplace. Such factors, superimposed on the inevitable slowdown
in economic growth following the boom of 1972-73, underlie the recession
we are now in.
The weakening of consumer demand and investment, in turn, is beginning
to exert a dampening effect on price and wage increases. Thus, inflationary
pressures are already beginning to recede and are likely to continue to do so.
The one-time increase in fuel costs needed to constrain excessive energy usage
will not reverse this basic trend.
AIDING ECONOMIC RECOVERY.-In view of this situation, I have proposed a $16
billion rebate of personal and corporation income taxes that will help reduce
unemployment without rekindling inflation. This tax cut will contribute to
deficits, adding $6 billion in 1975 and $10 billion in 1976.
Aside from the effects of the proposed tax reduction, the deficits anticipated
for 1975 and 1976 are in large part the result of those aspects of the budget and
the tax system that respond automatically to changes in the economy. When
an economic slowdown occurs, Federal tax collections slow down more than
incomes and profits do, and unemployment benefit payments rise sharply. These
factors tend to cushion the economic downturn and help sustain individual and
corporate incomes.
These stabilizing influences are substantial. If the economy were to be as
fully employed in 1976 as it was in 1974, we would have $40 billion in additional
tax receipts, assuming no change in tax rates. Aid to the unemployed, including
the special measures I proposed and the Congress enacted last December, will
be $12.7 billion larger in 1976 than in 1974, providing income support for
149
