[82]
February 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
This is the second trip in the last week from Washington to very important
parts of our great country-Atlanta last week, Houston today, Topeka, Kansas,
tomorrow.
I am meeting with the Governors of a number of States in this area this eve-
ning, and I am meeting with members of the news media, publishers, editors,
tomorrow morning before shoving off for Kansas.
The message that I am going to bring you today is a very complicated one,
but I think we have reached the metallic stage of the energy crisis-I emphasize
"the metallic stage." We have to look for the silver lining in the energy problem;
we must consider it a golden opportunity to achieve self-sufficiency; and then,
I might add, we have to get the lead out. [Laughter]
America must face the challenges of the 21st century today, to live and act
ahead of our times. Rapidly changing circumstances at home and abroad
demand, in fact they insist, that we do so. We must redefine our direction as a
nation and our priorities as a people. It is imperative to embark on new courses,
to set new precedents, to create new policies, and to chart America's future with
a new spirit of national determination and national urgency.
Now is the time to make energy an urgent priority before it becomes our
number one problem. It is already a significant contributor to the present num-
ber one problem, which is inflationary recession.
Less than 10 years ago, in the late 1960's, the United States had sufficient sur-
plus capacity to prevent any sharp increases in the world petroleum market. We
were invulnerable to foreign disruption of our critical energy needs. But the
control of that market has moved from here in the Texas Gulf area in this coun-
try to the Persian Gulf and other oil-producing nations.
During this same period or span of time, our energy consumption grew rap-
idly at the rate of 4 to 5 percent per year. Yet, despite the increasing demand,
U.S. petroleum production peaked in 1970. And it has, unfortunately, declined
ever since.
The energy industry here at home did not have sufficient incentive to increase
production. Our domestic energy supply has seriously deteriorated. Natural gas
has been consumed faster than new reserves have been developed. Coal produc-
tion still equals only 1930 levels. Nuclear power has been beset by technical and
environmental problems. Many electrical utilities are in very severe financial
straits.
Foreign oil has filled the gap. It now furnishes about 38 percent of our domes-
tic consumption at prices that have quadrupled in the past year. Thus, when
foreign supply was cut off during the 1973 embargo, we had no excess domestic
208
