[331]
June 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
my hero statesman-was Henry Stimson, who was
Secretary of State and thrice Secretary of War, and
Secretary of War during the Great War when I had
the privilege of serving under him.
He left that clarion note to those who came after
him, to the youth that were succeeding his generation,
bidding them to go off and do better, if you can,
don't waste your time in criticizing, bear up your
faith in mankind, never lose the will to strive, and
then he ended it up by saying that the only deadly
sin he knew was cynicism.
If this little foundation can really bring people
together from both sides of the water, with that
sense of spirit, the founders' purpose will be fulfilled.
Let me say again how deeply I appreciate, both
Messrs. Presidents, the fact that you should come
out on this gracious occasion the way you did.
Thank you very much indeed.
332
Remarks Upon Signing a Bill Extending the Emergency Livestock
Credit Act of 1974. June 16, 1975
LET ME thank the Members of the Congress, particularly those from the two
committees on agriculture for coming down, along with Secretary of Agricul-
ture Butz, for the signing of the emergency livestock credit act of 1975, which
is, of course, an extension of the law that was passed in the first instance in 1974.
The livestock industry for the last several years has been going through a
very difficult period. They have a cost-price squeeze; there has been a serious
problem in handling credit as a result.
The Congress and the executive branch working together by the original act
and by the extension which I am about to sign, I think, will help to build a
healthy livestock industry. It will be something that will benefit not only the
livestock producers and other related agricultural producers but it will likewise
help the consumer, in that we will have an assured supply of good food, which
is, of course, essential and necessary for a better America.
So, it is a privilege for me on this occasion to thank the Members of Congress
who have worked on this legislation and to participate in the extension of this
legislation.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:01 p.m. at a cere-
mony in the Cabinet Room at the White House.
As enacted, the bill (S. 1236) is Public Law
94-35 (89 Stat. 213).
333
Remarks Upon Signing a Summer Youth Employment Bill.
June 16, 1975
BEFORE SIGNING the summer youth employment, recreation, and transpor-
tation supplemental appropriation bill, I do want to thank the Members of
822
