[46]
January 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
pay increases for Federal employees, both civilian and military, retirement bene-
fits for Federal employees and the military; but, in my judgment, the time has
arrived when politically unpopular decisions must be made. And in this case,
if we put this 5-percent cap or ceiling on all of these categories, the reduction in
anticipated expenditures for the Federal Government will be $6.6 billion, a fair
amount of Federal funds.
My point is quite simple. If we do not begin the task, as I see the picture, we
will be doing disservice to the people we most want to help. Fortunately, there
is something in our national character that seems to summon strength when the
country is confronted with difficult challenges. And that is why I happen to
believe that the American people will accept and will respond to the economic
and energy proposals we have laid before them and before the Congress.
I intend to explain, to hopefully persuade the Congress and the American
people to respond. I will take my case directly to the American people. Just as I
believe it is the President's duty to make hard choices, I also believe the choices
must be explained to the most important forum there is-some 213 million
Americans. Your help in just explaining the facts—we do not expect you to be
prejudiced one way or another-but if you can get the facts out, this is vitally
important to an honest dialog and effective decisionmaking.
I appreciate your concern by being here today. And I look forward to seeing
you around the country, where I hope to be in the next several months.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:40 p.m. in Room
450 at the Old Executive Office Building to members
of the association attending the briefing by Admin-
47
istration officials on the President's energy and eco-
nomic programs.
Telegram to United Mine Workers of America President
Arnold R. Miller on the Union's 85th Anniversary.
January 25, 1975
AS THE United Mine Workers of America marks its eighty-fifth anniversary,
your members deserve the congratulations and gratitude of the American
people.
Since the founding of your great union before the turn of the century, mine
workers have contributed immeasurably to the progress and economic welfare
of all Americans. The UMW has fought long and hard to advance the overall
112
