February 10
[82]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
production to fall back on. Our gross national product dropped substantially.
Nearly 300,000 people lost their jobs at the height of the embargo. The impact
could have been far more severe if it had continued any longer.
This presents us with the following problem: We must take immediate and
resolute action so that we can insulate our economy against the disruption which
a new embargo could create. The risks in terms of unemployment and economic
damage are simply far too great.
There are those who promise more jobs if we would just import more foreign
oil than I have proposed. They say, in effect, pay the higher prices to the oil-
producing countries and bring in more foreign energy than the President plans,
because that will create more jobs and lessen inflation. It is my sincere judgment
that that is an empty promise.
The facts, as I see them, are as follows: The longer we take to protect ourselves
against embargoes, the more vulnerable our economy becomes to foreign de-
cisions beyond our control. Each year we have been increasing our dependence
on foreign energy sources. Each year we lose more jobs because we are sending
overseas the money we are paying for additional and higher-priced oil. That
money, which has increased fourfold, is lost to investment in our domestic
economy. So, we will not create more jobs in America by paying more money to
the Arabs and other oil-producing nations.
Future embargoes would be substantially more damaging to our economy
than the last one, because we are now even more dependent than a year ago.
Those who propose no action now hope there will be no future embargoes. I
must add, however, they offer no guarantees of security and, obviously, cannot
do so. This is a little like saying that a man with a very large family needs no
insurance. I assure you that the United States is a very large family, some 213
million Americans, and as President, I do not wish to take that gamble, the
risk, the danger—they are far, far too great.
We cannot play games, as I see it, with our total economy in the hopes of
boasting about limited winnings that are not at all certain. This bet-a-million
philosophy-that we can continue to import the entire million or a significant
part of the million barrels that I propose to cut back—is a very high risk and,
in my judgment, a reckless gamble.
Instead of betting on what foreign sources may do, we should put our money
on what Americans can do and what Americans will do. If we offer sufficient
incentives, American enterprise here at home will solve our energy problems.
Because of our present dependence, we are confronted with these two critical
problems: First, the effect on our national political and military security; and,
209
