[80]
February 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
Labor constitute an exemplary record of public service. You can be very proud
of this outstanding record. It is one that has deservedly earned you the high
respect of your colleagues and the full gratitude of your fellow citizens.
I also want to express my personal appreciation to you for your unfailing
cooperation and assistance to my Administration during these first important
months. I am particularly grateful for your vital work in shaping and guiding
to enactment the Pension Reform Bill of 1974. This is truly historic legislation,
of immense and lasting benefit to the American worker, and I am proud and
grateful that, thanks to your untiring efforts, it could be one of the first bills I
signed into law as President.
Betty joins me in extending to you and your family our warmest good wishes
for every continued success and happiness in the future.
Sincerely,
[The Honorable Peter J. Brennan, Secretary of Labor, Washington, D.C. 20210]
NOTE: Secretary Brennan's letter of resignation read
as follows:
Dear Mr. President:
Having just completed two years in office, I have
taken the time to review the accomplishments that
we have made in that short time period. I sincerely
believe that the Department has made many out-
standing contributions and truly carried out its
mission to promote and protect the interests of
American workers.
In the course of this review, I have also considered
my own personal situation and decided that it is in
my own best interest and that of my family to
JERRY FORD
return to the private sector. Therefore, I am hereby
submitting my resignation to be effective on or
about March 15, 1975.
It has indeed been a personal pleasure and a
great privilege working with you on behalf of
the people who make up this great nation of ours.
My prayers and best wishes will be with you in
all that you do.
Respectfully submitted,
PETER J. BRENNAN
Secretary of Labor
[The President, The White House, Washington,
D.C.]
81
Remarks at the Swearing In of James T. Lynn as Director of the
Office of Management and Budget. February 10, 1975
Jim and Mrs. Lynn, Mr. Justice Rehnquist, the Lynn family, distinguished
guests:
It is a great privilege to be here on this occasion. I was looking over Jim's
long and very beneficial record, starting back in 1969 as, first, General Counsel
of the Department of Commerce and then Under Secretary and subsequently
the head of the very, very important Department, Housing and Urban Develop-
ment. And in each and every case, Jim has done a superb job.
I asked him to leave that responsibility and come over to OMB. And of course,
206
