February 13
[90]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
But if I may paraphrase Mark Twain, the reports of the free enterprise system's
death or demise have been greatly exaggerated.
Take a second look at the gloomy forecasts. Even the best forecasters some-
times have trouble. Grim statistics tend to assume a life and a momentum of
their own. So, when the rate of joblessness has gone up 3 percent in the past
year, the tendency among some forecasters is to look for a further rise, not a
turnaround.
Forecasts are only forecasts; they are not divine commandments carved upon
stone. The thing we should concentrate on now, as I see it, is not what someone
has forecast, but what we can do to change things for the better. America's
economic future does not depend upon paper projections. I concede we are in a
very difficult situation. But if we approach it with a practical, tough-minded
optimism, we can cope.
An economic illness is like any other illness. Too much medicine or too little
medicine can make it worse. The crucial issue is how much treatment to give.
This was what I had to decide in drawing up a comprehensive economic pro-
gram. Too small a tax cut would not really help the average citizen. Too large
a Federal deficit would soak up too much capital and fan the flames of inflation.
A realistic balance had to be struck. The program I have submitted—after
a great deal of time and attention and the best and most expert advice I could
get-comes as close as possible under present conditions. The $16 billion tax cut
would not just benefit the individuals and businesses receiving it; it would pro-
vide an immediate stimulant to the economy. It would pump fresh money into
consumer goods and services and, at the business end, into new jobs and greater
productivity.
I am hopeful that we can and will have unemployment down by the end of
this year. But in stimulating the economy to create more jobs, neither the Con-
gress nor I can afford to remake past errors. We cannot forget the dangers of
adopting policies that will surely set off another round of uncontrolled inflation
during 1976 and thereafter.
Unemployment is the biggest concern of the 8.2 percent of American workers
temporarily out of work. But inflation is the universal enemy of 100 percent of
our people in America today.
It is my very firm conviction that we must not fight recessionary problems
with inflationary cures. And we don't intend to do it, if I can prevent it.
Naturally, I will work with the Congress to avoid this danger and will use
my veto, if necessary, to protect the American people from the effects of new
Federal spending programs, except for energy.
239
