[396]
July 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
determine yet whether Alexander Butterfield, who was mentioned so promi-
nently in the news stories yesterday, did anything in an undercover way or any-
thing that leads you to believe he was doing something that former President
Nixon didn't know about?
THE PRESIDENT. We have no specific information in that regard, and until
we get it or it is made available to us, I think it is premature to make any
comment.
MR. LEUBSDORF. Thank you, Mr. President.
NOTE: President Ford's seventeenth news conference began at 11:30 a.m. in the Adams Room at the Palmer
House, Chicago, Ill.
397
Commencement Address at Chicago State University.
July 12, 1975
Thank you very much, Mr. Ladd. Dr. Alexander, my good friend Congress-
man Ralph Metcalfe, Reverend Martin, distinguished graduates—which I am
now proud partner with you-your honored parents and friends, ladies and
gentlemen:
I am distinctly honored by the action taken by Dr. Alexander, and I will for-
ever remember the opportunity to be an associate with all of you in the class of
July 1975, and I thank you very much.
It is perfectly obvious that I am delighted with your invitation and the oppor-
tunity to be here at the commencement exercises of beautiful Chicago Univer-
sity. You know, that is what I admire so much about Dr. Alexander. He not
only tells it like it is but also like it better be. [Laughter]
Even during this very brief visit with all of you today, I can see that this
graduating class has, excluding myself, talent, vision, ambition, and a sense of
humor as well.
I asked one of the graduating students here today, "What inspired your school
symbol, that symbol you have of a black hand and a white hand clasped to-
gether. Does it symbolize the brotherhood of learning?" He said, “No, Mr.
President. The clasped hands have an entirely different meaning. After a big
rainstorm, that is a black student and a white student helping each other to get
from the university center to their classes." [Laughter]
2 Deputy Assistant to the President 1969-72.
978
