January 30
[61]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
but none of us in those days could have foreseen what would happen in the 1970's.
Today, the task is not to rebuild and to reorder a world torn by war, but to
face the challenges of peace and to face the problems of recession, inflation,
balance of payments deficit, the shortages of energy and fuel as well as food,
and the safeguarding of our security while trying to reduce the international
tensions that are difficult as we try to strengthen our international relationships.
The problems underlying our interdependence of nations and the need for
communication are vastly important, and our two nations, I think, can set an
example for the problems that we face in this regard.
Recently, the world honored the 100th anniversary of Sir Winston Churchill's
birthday, and it is almost unbelievable that today marks the 10th anniversary of
Sir Winston Churchill's death. So, we think of him and of our difficulties and
challenges. We are reminded of his courage and optimism in the face of great
peril.
He told the world in December of 1941-and I think this is appropriate to
mention now—“We have not journeyed all this way across the centuries, across
the oceans, across the mountains, across the prairies because we are made of
sugar candy."
Mr. Prime Minister, the challenges we face are serious, they are different and,
in many ways, much more complex than those confronted in the Second World
War. Yet I am confident by working together, the free and democratic nations
can again triumph. We are still made not of sugar candy.
I look forward, Mr. Prime Minister, to continuing our constructive discussions
tomorrow that we initiated today. It was most enjoyable to have an opportunity
to be in the company of our British friends.
Mr. Prime Minister, you and I talked before dinner of a sport that apparently
we both enjoy but we don't do too competently. It is a sport better known among
the Scottish, but loved by Americans as well as the British.
You know, I especially like to play golf with our Secretary of State, Henry
Kissinger, who is with us tonight. Henry is undoubtedly one of the greatest
diplomats this world has ever known.
Let me tell you why I can make that categorical statement. The last time we
played, I found myself in a sand trap. There was a water hazard beyond that,
and then 95 feet before we found the first hole. Henry conceded the putt.
[Laughter]
Mr. Prime Minister, with profound appreciation for your presence with us
today and tonight, I offer a toast to Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth and to you
and Mrs. Wilson. To the Queen.
139
