July 12
[396]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
GASOLINE PRICES
[4.] Q. As a followup to that, as you know, the price of gasoline is now in
the mid-60's per gallon. How high do you think it can go and still be economi-
cally and politically acceptable?
THE PRESIDENT. If we don't increase domestic production of oil and become
more and more vulnerable to foreign oil imports, then gasoline prices could rise
substantially.
My program for a self-sufficient energy program in the United States will
preclude any precipitous rise in domestic gasoline prices. So, the Congress has to
work with me in trying to get an energy program that will increase production
at home so we will not be held vulnerable to foreign oil price increases.
I believe that we are making some headway, but the Congress must move
more quickly if we are to foreclose the kind of gasoline price increases that
might occur if we stay vulnerable to foreign oil imports.
Q. But there is no specific figure that you would like to hold it to?
THE PRESIDENT. No, because the Congress hasn't acted. Until we know what
the Congress does, I can't predict with certainty what the domestic production
will be.
FORMER PRESIDENT NIXON
[5.] Q. Mr. President, would you consider extending the pardon of former
President Nixon to cover his recent testimony to Federal prosecutors and mem-
bers of the grand jury?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think I should speculate on something like that.
Nothing has happened. The decision I made in September was the right deci-
sion as to the time and otherwise, and I don't think I should speculate on some-
thing that hasn't taken place and may not take place.
VIEWS ON THE PRESIDENCY
[6.] Q. Mr. President, as you near the end of your first year in office and
prepare to start campaigning for election to a full term, what do you consider
your biggest personal accomplishments and failings as President?
THE PRESIDENT. I believe that we have done the following: One, we have
restored public confidence in the White House and in the executive branch
of the Government.
On the economic side, we have made substantial progress in reducing the rate
of inflation. A year ago, the rate of inflation was 12 to 14 percent. We have cut
it in half; it is now roughly 6 percent. We are not satisfied, but it is going to be a
969
