[379]
July 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
By our Centennial in 1876, the American Republic had been securely estab-
lished. Of this, there was no doubt, either at home or abroad.
Our second century has been marked by the growth of the great American free
enterprise system. The pioneer spirit which carried us west turned us to new
frontiers. Railroads spanned the continent and became a web of steel linking
city to city, region to region, town to town. The automobile and its assembly line
changed forever transportation and our manufacturing process in America.
The Wright brothers mastered powered flight at Kitty Hawk. The age of
flight was born. From the first Atlantic crossing by the "Lone Eagle," Charles
Lindbergh, to the American astronauts who announced that the Eagle had
landed, when touchdown on the Moon, America's leadership was again
established.
The telegram, the telephone, the television—all are a great part of the com-
munications revolution of the second century. Science, medicine, agriculture
production, marketing-these have been just a few of the modern frontiers since
1876.
But now our third century, I believe, should be an era of individual freedom.
The mass approach of the modern world places a premium on creativity and
individuality. We see mass production, mass education, mass population. They
must not smother individual expression or limit individual opportunity. In-
dividualism is a safeguard against the sameness of society. A government too large
and bureaucratic can stifle individual initiative by a frustrating statism.
In America—and never forget it—our sovereign is the citizen. Our sovereign
is the citizen, and we must never forget it. Governments exist to serve people.
The state is the creature of the populace. These propositions are the foundation
stones of our Bicentennial.
Today, in the 199th year of our independence, we stand on the threshold of
a new American experience. Let us make the coming year a great year on
America's agenda of achievement. As we move to the Bicentennial of Ameri-
can Independence, let us think where we will be and what we can achieve by
next July 4, by the next decade, by the 200th anniversary of our Constitution,
and by the year 2000.
Let us resolve that this shall be an era of hope rather than despair. Let us resolve
that it shall be an era of achievement rather than apathy. Let us resolve that it
shall be a time of promise rather than regret.
The Bicentennial should be a time for each of us of self-examination and
individual accomplishment. Quality and permanence should be the measure-
930
