July 12
[397]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
I was so deeply moved by the more than 5,000 signatures on the petition invit-
ing me that no rainstorm could have kept me away. I was impressed not only
by the great number of signatures but also by the Chicago State University
success story.
CSU serves the urban needs of a great city. Not long ago, CSU came under
heavy attack, but you effectively answered the challenge. Today, CSU is grad-
uating a first-rate and hopeful class of 1975. You have overcome. You can today
share a justifiable pride; so can the city of Chicago, the State of Illinois, and
the entire United States. You have proved the critics wrong.
I know of the sacrifices of your husbands and wives, your parents, your grand-
parents, yes, even your great grandparents. Some of your guests here today were
denied even the opportunity to complete high school, but none can stand taller
in American achievement than they do for the inspiring and encouragement
that they have given to today's graduates.
To those relatives who never had a chance to attend an institution of higher
learning, I say: You have learned the greatest history lesson that the United
States of America can teach. You have learned to nourish hope, to sustain belief
in a better life for the next generation, to work toward that goal, and now, to
experience the proof that the American dream is possible for all.
To the graduates, I say: You have made your loved ones proud; you have
made Chicago State University proud. You have made me proud to be President
of a nation where graduates like you strive against heavy odds for self-better-
ment, for equal opportunity, for constructive change, and for excellence; where
graduates build on abilities rather than cop out on disabilities; where graduates
believe in themselves and in the contribution they can make to their community;
and where graduates provide a living demonstration of how we are going to
turn around the problems of our great cities.
Chicago State University is a showcase of what can be done by people with
determination. You have shown how white and black hands can unite to build
a multiracial institution. You have shown academic achievement. And you have
responded to the real needs of the community that you serve.
Most of today's graduates had to work full or part time on outside jobs, and
if I might, I would like to share a personal experience. As a freshman at the
University of Michigan, I worked as a busboy in the nurses' cafeteria at the
university hospital. I also waited on tables in the interns' dining room. I will
say, parenthetically, I liked the first job better. [Laughter]
But let me add very quickly that even during the Great Depression it was
much easier for me. I was not the victim of racial prejudice nor of a deprived
979
