[189]
April 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
them. But I don't think I ought to talk about an evacuation. I hope we are in
a position where we can clarify or stabilize the situation and get a negotiated
settlement that wouldn't put their lives in jeopardy.
VIETNAM CONFLICT
[13.] Q. Mr. President, you have talked a great deal about the moral obliga-
tion of this country to provide more military arms for South Vietnam. But
what about the moral obligation to the suffering people of that country, the
moral obligation to end that war?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, Mr. Reston, the agreement which was signed, I think,
by 12 nations in January of 1973 in Paris-and I was there; I saw the signing—
was accomplished with the expectation that that war would end. If the agree-
ment had been lived up to, the war would not now be going on.
We have continued in various ways to try and achieve a cease-fire, and I can
assure you that we intend to continue those efforts.
But it is tragic, in my judgment, that what everybody thought was good in
January of 1973 has been violated, and now we are faced with a terrible catas-
trophe at the present time.
Q. But would we not then, a year from now or 5 years from now, still have
the same moral obligation you speak of?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, it is my best judgment, based on experts within the
Administration, both economic and military, that if we had made available
for the next 3 years reasonable sums of military aid and economic assistance,
that South Vietnam would have been viable, that it could have met any of
its economic problems, could have met any military challenges.
This is another of the tragedies. For just a relatively small additional com-
mitment in economic and military aid, relatively small compared to the $150
billion that we spent, that at the last minute of the last quarter we don't make
that special effort, and now we are faced with this human tragedy. It just makes
me sick every day I hear about it, read about it, and see it.
1976 PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN
[14.] Q. Mr. President, a political question. You have some interest, I
believe, in 1976, and there is some doubt about the wisdom of some of the pri-
mary laws that have been enacted. I wonder, do you place your confidence in
the primary laws, or do you like the convention system better?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, Mr. Kirkpatrick, I have always enjoyed a good elec-
504
