May 14
[255]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
and objectives that are important not only to the community but to Europe as a
whole.
Let me assure you to the extent that words mean anything, this country—and
I look around and see good Democrats and good Republicans—we are unified
in this country in the strength, the solidarity, and the vision of Europe and the
United States and the allies.
So, when I have the privilege of joining with you and with the others repre-
senting the NATO organization I think I can speak for all of America in saying
that we believe what was established in 1951 is as strong and as viable and as
effective in the years ahead.
So, if I might, Mr. Prime Minister, may I offer to you and to your health, a
toast, and to the health of Her Majesty, Queen Juliana, and to the lasting friend-
ship between our peoples.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:50 p.m. in the State
Dining Room at the White House. Prime Minister
den Uyl responded as follows:
Mr. President:
The Minister of Foreign Affairs joins me in ex-
pressing our sincere thanks for your warm hos-
pitality and for your kind words of welcome this
morning.
When you refer to the many ties that are between
the Netherlands and the United States, you are
right. You, personally, you may testify about his-
torical origins of those ties in the State where you
come from and where many Dutch people have
found a new homeland.
While the Dutch still have been active in history
of the United States-they founded New Amster-
dam, and while it should still be New Amsterdam-
was it not that they sold it at much too low a price
to other people?-[laughter]—and while there are
so many things of Dutch activities in the past in this
Nation that, well, you are right in saying that so
much in the past and so much in the present unify
us.
Well, let me say a few more words to what might
be of importance in our relations.
You know, Holland is a small country. It is more
dependent on international relations than a few
other countries. We are densely populated. Our im-
ports and exports together are as big as our gross
national product.
When anything is wrong in the world-we feel
it just today that it happens-we cannot live without
the working of international institutions, and we
firmly believe in the value and the importance of
those institutions.
While the times that a little Dutch boy could
solve an environmental crisis by just putting his
finger in the dike belongs to the past, these problems
can now only be adequately dealt with in major in-
ternational organizations-the U.N., the OECD
[Organization for Economic Cooperation and De-
velopment], the energy action group.
The Netherlands is traditionally a strong sup-
porter of such institutionalized international coop-
eration. Our support for NATO is increasingly
linked to the considerable contribution to détente
that this organization has been able to make during
the last years and, hopefully, will make in the fu-
ture. A historic breakthrough has been accomplished
from the cold war years to a new era of, as we see
it, dialog and negotiations.
Let me say this is well known that in my country
an intensive discussion is going on on the present
and future role of NATO. For my government, it
is essential that NATO will contribute to the devel-
oping and deepening of democracy and the promo-
tion of détente in East-West relations as we stressed
in the Declaration of Ottawa last year.
While, Mr. President, this morning discussing our
common problems, I referred to the great significance
that the problems of the North-South relations have
in my country, I told you that perhaps the very
strong Calvinist tradition is true to the very im-
portant role we attach to North-South relations and
to development of cooperation in the world.
Churches in Holland are aware of that, political
parties, and we consider it as our plight to come
out for it.
Let me say a few more words to the problem.
We do think that the problems of international
peace and security are closely linked with social
progress and economic well-being. You, Mr. Presi-
dent, and your collaborators have on numerous oc-
casions stressed the basic reality of worldwide
interdependence.
667
