February 3
[69]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
After so many years of energy abundance, many Americans find it very, very
hard to understand why we must suddenly take strong measures, measures that
are especially difficult during a recession to make sure, to make positive that we
have energy to meet our day-to-day needs.
The answer is simple: We have no choice. The hard decisions have been post-
poned far too long. We must act now and, as I see it, here is why: Unless
Congress enacts a comprehensive energy policy such as I have proposed, or some
equally comprehensive alternative, by 1977 we will be importing at least 25
percent more foreign oil than we are at the present time; by 1985, we will be
dependent on foreign sources for more than half of our oil needs.
Let me put some figures in perspective for you. In 1973, we were importing
roughly 6 million barrels per day. We were depending upon about 10 million
barrels per day out of domestic production.
Despite a voluntary effort at conservation today, we are importing a little
over 7 million barrels per day, primarily because our domestic production is
declining. And may I add, parenthetically, that if we had not had a voluntary
method of conservation or a program of voluntary conservation, we would have
been importing much more.
The facts of life are, in the United States, that our domestic oil production is
declining, and it will continue to decline. And let me give you some other figures
that I think put this in perspective.
In 1970, the United States was paying for foreign oil about $3 billion a year.
In 1974, we paid for foreign oil $24 billion. In 4 years, from $3 billion a year to
$24 billion a year! And if we do not do something about conservation as quickly
as possible, by 1977 we will be paying $32 billion a year! We cannot afford it.
We cannot sit idly by and continue to be as vulnerable as we are and, as more,
so we will be.
I don't like to paint a serious picture, but the facts are there. Our vulnerability
is getting worse every day to foreign sources of oil, and that crisis requires that
we act and act promptly.
And now let me add a few comments to that heartening picture. At the time
of the 1973-74 oil embargo—just to put it in another context-we were depend-
ent on foreign sources for a little more than a third of our total oil consumption.
A serious disruption, which that embargo caused to our economy, is minor,
very minor, compared to what will happen if we fail to start right now toward
energy independence.
We can achieve this independence by 1985 under the program that I have
submitted to the Congress, a program which encourages energy conservation
169
