[334]
June 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
recorded, which became a smash hit, as we call it, throughout your country.¹
Your musical success contributes to your overall accomplishments as you
seek harmony at home and in concert with Germany's neighbors, both West as
well as East. You have dedicated yourself, Mr. President, to the cause of Euro-
pean unity, as we discussed this morning, as well as Atlantic solidarity. I know
these goals are vital to you, as well as to your country.
At the same time, your contribution to better East-West relations has been
most significant. Recent experience has demonstrated there can be no domestic
tranquillity or stability and prosperity in any country without cooperation with
other nations.
My Administration has been extremely proud to work closely with the Fed-
eral Republic on important international problems facing both of us in today's
world. Your country has made an important contribution to international peace,
Mr. President, not only through its steadfast cooperation with its friends as well
as its allies but also in the example set by your Government and your people
in meeting the new challenges of the modern world.
The Federal Republic today is in many, many ways a model of the develop-
ment of the modern industrial state—thriving in freedom as well as in democ-
racy, earning its role of eminence by hard work of its people, and finding its
successes in common endeavors within the European community and with its
allies.
This is the real challenge for the leaders of the West. I am inspired, Mr.
President, by the determination that I sense in the Federal Republic and its
leaders not to let our democratic way of life be undermined.
I continue to be impressed by your nation's ability to meet the tasks of today's
world—whether in the fields of economics, trade, energy, national defense, or
East-West relations—through the effective democratic government and creative
diplomacy.
This tradition, Mr. President, is the most encouraging aspect of our friendship
today. We cooperate very closely on the practical problems facing us, sharing the
conviction that these solutions will mean nothing if our political and social
institutions are not simultaneously preserved. A confident role in the world
depends upon confidence in ourselves.
Mr. President, earlier today it was a pleasure to participate with you in the
ceremony creating the John J. McCloy Fund, a fund established through a very
generous contribution from the Federal Republic to our Bicentennial celebra-
1 In December of 1973, then Foreign Minister Scheel recorded a folksong for the benefit of several charita-
ble organizations in Germany.
824
