April 25
[214]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
been discriminatory. This change will further enhance the Secretary's ability to
ensure that none of our citizens is denied on grounds of race, color, sex or
national origin the benefits of any program funded in whole or in part through
revenue sharing.
-To strengthen public participation in determining the use of shared revenues,
the proposed legislation requires that recipient governments must provide a
procedure for citizen participation in the allocation of revenue sharing monies.
—The Administration proposal would also make reporting requirements more
flexible to meet varying needs from community to community. The legislation
would grant the Secretary of the Treasury greater latitude in determining the
form of reports and the kind of information required of recipients. Similarly, he
would have more flexibility to determine the method by which recipient govern-
ments must publicize their use of funds.
—Finally, the proposal requires a reconsideration of the program two years
before its expiration.
EARLY RENEWAL IS IMPORTANT
I urge the Congress at its earliest convenience to begin deliberations on the
renewal of the State and Local Fiscal Assistance Act of 1972. Effective planning
at the State capitols, city halls, and county courthouses will require action in
this first session of the 94th Congress. In fact, in the fall of 1975 many of our
States and local governments will be preparing their fiscal year 1977 budgets.
It will be essential for them to know at that time whether General Revenue
Sharing funds will be available to them after December, 1976.
The expiration of the present General Revenue Sharing Law is coincident
with the year in which the Nation celebrates its bicentennial. There could be
no more practical reaffirmation of the Federal compact which launched this
Country than to renew the program which has done so much to preserve and
strengthen that compact—General Revenue Sharing.
The White House,
April 25, 1975.
GERALD R. FORD
583
