[31]
January 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
Although the results of these efforts are not always highly visible, I believe they
are making an important contribution to abating continued inflation.
Because the problem of inflation is a stubborn one, I intend to ask the Congress
to extend the life of the Council on Wage and Price Stability to June 30, 1976.
GERALD R. FORD
The White House,
January 16, 1975.
NOTE: The report covering the period May to Sep-
tember 1974 is entitled "Quarterly Report-Council
32
on Wage and Price Stability" (Government Printing
Office, 51 pp.)
Remarks at a Briefing for State and Local Officials on Energy
and Economic Programs. January 16, 1975
Members of the Cabinet, distinguished Governors, mayors, public officials:
It is a privilege and a pleasure for me to be here and to follow all the tech-
nicians and experts who have given you the several programs and answered,
I trust, satisfactorily, all your questions. Haven't you? [Laughter] They didn't
learn very fast then.
Well, it is nice to be here and to conclude the program, at least officially, with
a few remarks.
If you heard, saw, or read my speech yesterday, you know I didn't paint a
very optimistic picture. I didn't intend to. I meant to say what the facts are
as to the economy and our situation in the field of energy.
We all know that the economy is in trouble, and I won't embellish what I
said yesterday by citing any facts or figures. We know that the problem of energy
is acute in the United States. It doesn't seem that way today; of course, 12 or
14 months ago it was, and the problem that we had 12 or 14 months ago, which
was acute, could occur or could reoccur at any time.
We have a short-range and a long-range problem in the field of energy,
and we'd better find some answers. As a result of the difficulties we have in the
economy and the problems we face in energy, I devoted virtually all of my time
yesterday in the State of the Union to those two problems.
All of you are public officials. I consider myself one. Let me say that being
a public official in these circumstances with unemployment high, with infla-
50
