[312]
June 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
mine U.S. borrowing rights, financial obligations, and voting power in the
Fund-is 5,560 million Special Drawing Rights (SDR), or approximately $6.9
billion. This quota represents 27.8 percent of total quotas in the Fund. The leg-
islation I am proposing today will permit the United States to participate in the
Fund up to its SDR quota, by authorizing the issuance of guarantees by the Sec-
retary of the Treasury. It is intended that any United States contributions will
be primarily, if not exclusively, in the form of guarantees to permit the Support
Fund to borrow in world capital markets as necessary to meet its lending needs.
Most other members also intend to use this guarantee technique. This approach
removes the need for the $7 billion in 1976 appropriations for the Support Fund,
as proposed in the budget, and will also reduce outlays by $1 billion.
Only if a borrower from the Support Fund failed to meet the payments on its
obligations would the United States be required to transfer funds as a result of
its guarantees. In that unlikely event, the resources of the Exchange Stabilization
Fund (ESF) would be used to fulfill the requirements of immediate payment
on the guarantees. Should it appear desirable, in light of economic and other
conditions, for the United States to make direct loans to the Support Fund, these
could also be provided from the ESF in accordance with existing statutory au-
thority. This new legislation provides for appropriations to be used to replenish
ESF resources to the extent the Stabilization Fund is used for these purposes. In
no event will U.S. financial obligations to the Support Fund exceed the dollar
value of its quota.
The Financial Support Fund Agreement was signed on April 9. OECD mem-
ber countries are now seeking legislative and other authority needed to enable
them to participate. While the problems the Support Fund is designed to deal
with are temporary, the need for the Fund is nonetheless real and immediate. I
urge the Congress to act promptly to enable the United States to join in this
major instrument of international financial cooperation.
Sincerely,
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters addressed
to the Honorable Carl Albert, Speaker of the House
GERALD R. FORD
of Representatives, and the Honorable Nelson A.
Rockefeller, President of the Senate.
784
