[184]
April 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
So, with the best of good wishes for them to carry out this mission, I now
ask Mr. Ratchford to perform the service of swearing them in.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:45 p.m. in the
Rose Garden at the White House. Executive Clerk
John J. Ratchford administered the oath of office to
Thomas B. Curtis, Joan D. Aikens, Robert Tiernan,
Vernon Thomson, Neil Staebler, and Thomas Harris.
Commission Chairman Curtis' response to the
President's remarks is printed in the Weekly Com-
pilation of Presidential Documents (vol. 11, p. 379).
185
Remarks at a Reception for Members of the National
Commission on the Observance of International
Women's Year, 1975. April 14, 1975
Members of the Congress, the House and Senate, members of the Commission,
distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
I apologize for being a little late, but I have spent a good share of the after-
noon with a substantial number of members of two important committees of
the Senate,¹ and so I am just late and I hope you will understand and accept my
apology.
Well, I obviously am delighted to welcome such a talented group of women
and men to the White House. The group that I have met in there that I had the
privilege of inviting specially here, they, as well as all of you, represent a rich
diversity of political, cultural, and experienced backgrounds. But it is most
important that your common concern for upgrading the status of women tran-
scends any differences that you might have.
Your work to promote the observance of the International Women's Year
begins tomorrow. And with a very broad challenge to promote equality between
men and women, I think you have got your work cut out for you—to ensure the
full participation of women in the social-economic developments of this society,
as well as to recognize their contributions to the development of world peace.
Although the growing concern about the special legal and social problems
of women has paved the way for many, many new laws and important court
decisions, real change, as I see it, will depend upon the caliber and the degree
of enforcement. Laws alone, as we know in many, many instances, are not
enough.
Statistics on the employment of women in Federal Government demonstrates,
1 The President met first with members of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee to discuss United
States assistance to Cambodia, and then with members of the Senate Agriculture and Forestry Committee
and the House Agriculture Committee to discuss pending farm legislation which was in conference.
478
