February 1
[62]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
proportion of these expenditures are payments for individuals such as social
security, Medicare, public assistance, and other programs. But if these kinds
of expenditures continue at anywhere near their past rate of growth-more than
twice that of GNP-total government expenditures could slice away more than
half of our GNP in two decades.
When I submit my budget for this year, I especially urge the budget commit-
tees of the House and the Senate to take advantage of the provisions of the new
Congressional Budget [and Impoundment] Control Act. This permits them in
those two committees to set overall budget goals for the year and live within
the totals set.
In taking this action, the committees in both the House and the Senate should
make a detailed study of the $349 billion budget for fiscal year 1976. The two
committees should note that unless the goals set by the committees for the Con-
gress hold my $17 billion in budget cuts-in other words, if they don't keep the
budget reductions at the levels that I have suggested—the deficit for fiscal year
1976 will rise to nearly $70 billion, and for 1975 and 1976 together to about $100
billion.
I, of course, will work very closely with the Congress in all of these matters.
I will walk the extra mile and give all of my strength to getting the national
economy in shape. I ask the Congress to walk that extra mile with me so that
together we will lead the country with strength and purpose to a fuller life for
all Americans.
In view of the fact that this briefing is under embargo, except for my remarks,
which I have just made, I am advised that a question-and-answer session by me
at this time would not be appropriate. However, I will be available to answer
questions at a news conference next Tuesday.
It is now my pleasure to turn the meeting over to the Director of the Office
of Management and Budget, Mr. Roy Ash.
Let me say at this point, I know firsthand what a superb job Roy Ash and
his people have done at the Office of Management and Budget. I am particularly
grateful for the outstanding service that he has given, and I think the Amer-
ican people should consider themselves most fortunate to have had in this
important office, Roy Ash. I wish to publicly thank him and express my in-
debtedness to him for doing an outstanding job for me as well as the country.
I will turn Roy over to you. Ask him all of the tough questions, and I will
be glad to answer the easy ones next Tuesday. [Laughter]
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:02 a.m. in the Department of State Auditorium.
143
