February 11
[85]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
know that better highways save lives. We know that highway construction jobs
are meaningful employment. We think that this program, when it gets under-
way, will provide roughly, both direct and indirect, about 140,000 or more jobs.
We think that the promotion of safety, employment, the utilization of State
matching funds, and the opportunity to get action justifies what I have done.
And it seems to me that there is no inconsistency in doing this at the same
time we are trying to conserve fuel, because better highways save fuel. And fur-
thermore, it could have a favorable impact in giving to States as well as to local
communities the right to use some of the money, some of the money for mass
transit, which is an energy saver, a fuel saver.
ANTIRECESSION MEASURES
[4.] Q. Mr. President, your Press Secretary says that you are considering
new emergency measures if the recession worsens. What are these new meas-
ures,
and what would trigger the new initiatives-what developments? Specifi-
cally, how high would unemployment have to go?
THE PRESIDENT. Congratulations on your new success in joining the Gridiron
Club.ยน [Laughter]
Q. Answer the question. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. You made it unanimously, too.
Well, to answer your question, the action that I took today, I think, is con-
structive. It is an effort at the request of a number of Governors to move in an
area where they think some beneficial results will accrue. It is a response to a
particular situation.
I think it is important to maintain, basically, my deep concern about an
acceleration of Federal expenditures at the present time, but at the same time
being cognizant of unique circumstances, which I think this was. And if and
when other such circumstances arise, I will be willing to take a look at them
and make an honest judgment as to whether they are helpful or harmful.
UNEMPLOYMENT
[5.] Q. Well, Mr. President, may I ask you: Mr. Meany says that unem-
ployment could go as high as 10 percent. Is that true, and if not, what assur-
ances can you give that it will not?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I watched my good friend, George Meany, on Sunday
1 The questioner, Helen Thomas of United Press International, had recently been elected the first woman
member of the Gridiron Club.
223
