[85]
February 11
Public Papers of the Presidents
act on the programs that will get us moving forward, both in energy as well
as the economy.
OIL AND GAS PRODUCTION
[19.] Q. Mr. President, Kansas has about 20,000 low-producing oil and
gas wells. Do you have any incentives in your program to stimulate low pro-
ducers, and if not, why not?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, in the overall energy program that I have recom-
mended, we call for the decontrol of all domestic oil and gas production. We
think permitting all domestic oil and gas production to go up in price with a
windfall profits tax or a plowback provision will provide an incentive to some of
the older domestic oil wells in the State of Kansas as well as elsewhere. Particu-
larly, the plowback provision will stimulate additional production in these wells
as well as further exploration and development.
I think there is more hope-let me put it this way, if I might. If the Con-
gress is so unwise to impose mandatorily gas rationing or quotas or allocations,
there is no incentive, none whatsoever for greater domestic production, includ-
ing greater domestic production in Kansas out of the 20 or 30 or 40,000 oil wells in
Kansas.
So, my program does recommend an incentive, a stimulant to greater produc-
tion. What I hear some people are advocating, there is no chance of any stim-
ulation to greater production.
LABOR DEMONSTRATIONS
[20.] Q. Mr. President, Leonard Woodcock of the UAW [United Auto
Workers] is talking about organizing 250,000 unemployed labor members to
come to Washington to march on the Capitol this spring or summer to demand
action by the Government. How would you view such marches-which you
hear increasingly talked about in labor circles? Would you consider them a
serious threat to the domestic tranquillity?
THE PRESIDENT. I certainly respect the right of any individual or any group
to come to the Congress and to the President and petition where they have a
grievance that they feel ought to be so presented to the executive or legislative
branches of the Federal Government.
I hope that we can show there will be an improvement in the economy so
that a march or such marches in the summer will not be necessary. But I would
be the last person to say that an individual or a group doesn't have the right to
so take such action.
232
