[189]
April 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
Q. But it is our policy for the continued existence and guarantee of the
defense of Taiwan. Is that our continuing policy?
THE PRESIDENT. I said, and if I might I would more or less repeat it, that we
do value that relationship between the United States and the Republic of
China. I think that is best indicated by the high-level delegation that I sent for
the funeral services of Chiang Kai-shek. I believe that having sent Vice Presi-
dent Rockefeller there, with the others that were included, is a clear indication
that we consider our relationship, our cooperation with the Republic of China
a matter of very, very great importance to us.
ADMINISTRATION POLICIES
[8.] Q. Mr. President, you referred to the tragic situation in Vietnam.
It seems to many of us that it flows in part from what is obviously a profound
credibility gap between the majority of American citizens and all of the various
arms of what we can call the society's establishment. I include the press in this
unease which grips the American people, and certainly it is clear that this
Administration is regarded by many in the society as uncertain, inconsistent.
and even confused. My question, sir, is whether the reports coming to you
match this picture that I described in any way?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, if I understand the question, I—[laughter]—
Q. I can make it clearer, perhaps.
THE PRESIDENT. Why don't you make it crystal clear? [Laughter]
Q. Sir, the Administration is regarded by many in the American electorate
as inconsistent, uncertain, and confused.
THE PRESIDENT. I categorically deny that we are. [Laughter]
I must say that if that is the perception, this is not the first administration
that has had that problem. [Laughter]
I don't think we are inconsistent and confused on an economic policy. I don't
think we are inconsistent and confused on an energy policy. And I don't believe,
under any circumstances, that we are inconsistent and confused on foreign
policy.
I would be glad to take them one by one, if you would like me to set forth
in detail, but I can assure you that the policies in each of those three major
areas are integrated, are fully understood, and in my judgment, are the poli-
cies that are in the best interests of the United States.
One of the reasons why I do travel around the country-and I have been in
five or six areas where we have had press conferences, met with newspaper,
radio, television people—is to make sure that they get from me and from my
Administration the facts, straightforward, firsthand.
500
