[112]
February 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
1
battalion, Tiger more than lived up to his name. He was wounded in battle a
good many times, decorated 11 times by the French and by the United States,
and while he was still being treated in an Army hospital—I think it was 1946,
wasn't it, Tiger?—recovering from combat-inflicted wounds, that he learned
of his highest honor, that of being elected to the Congress, to the House of
Representatives.
I am sure that gave him the great feeling of satisfaction and honor that it has
to all of us who have ever had the privilege of serving in the House of
Representatives.
Tiger, from what we know of those who dealt with him, the words of trust
and honor—they were sort of the thing that Tiger believed in and acted on
and respected.
So, Tiger, your 29 years in the House, culminating in your high-ranking posi-
tions on the space and veterans committees—I think that is a tribute to you and
your record. Tiger worked, as we all know, in getting the space committee and
its activities moving.
He is known by those of us that knew him in the House as "Mr. Veteran"
himself. And I think the record shows that more veterans legislation can have
the mark of identity with Tiger than almost any other Member in the Congress.
His sensitivity and his compassion for others has been expressed in many tan-
gible and many lasting ways. I have talked to Tiger, and it is my judgment from
chatting with him that the one piece of legislation that really means more to
him than almost anything else is the war orphans scholarship program, which
is a great piece of legislation for a most worthy cause.
Let me just conclude by saying that I know that Tiger is a no-nonsense, hard
working, get-to-the-point legislator. And when you come right down to it,
whether you agree with him or disagree, that is the kind of a legislator that I
think is good for America, and that is what it is all about.
So, Tiger and Freddie, let me just express my deep gratitude for the contribu-
tions you have made and that you will continue to make.
In my younger days, there was a popular song with the words, "Hold that
tiger." Ladies and gentlemen, here is one Tiger you will never hold.
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:35 p.m. in Suite
2318. In his opening remarks, he referred to Mrs.
Teague and Terry Rodgers, the artist who painted
the portrait.
Representative Teague was chairman of the House
Committee on Veterans' Affairs from 1955 to 1971,
and chairman of the House Committee on Science
and Technology (formerly Science and Astronau-
tics) from 1973.
304
