April 19
[200]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
We have inherited a great tradition, but it is our job-older and younger
people joining together-to see to it that when our ancestors meet here 100
years from now, they can say that what was done here on this date was the
kickoff for a new century of unity, progress at home as well as abroad.
We have had some difficult times. It was said we have problems domestically,
and we do have problems internationally. But I am convinced if we join to-
gether, those from the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, those from my State
of Michigan, and the millions and millions around the United States, as well
as around the world, if we join in unity in the next 100 years, then we will have
done our part in tribute to those that preceded us in the previous 200 years.
I thank you again from the bottom of my heart, Mr. Chairman. I thank Sen-
ator Brooke and Senator Kennedy. I thank your Governor. I thank Members of
Congress from the great Commonwealth of Massachusetts.
I thank you all for the superb accomplishments in making our Bicentennial
the meaningful program that it must be if we pay tribute in the right way and
move forward in the best way.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:43 a.m. at Patriots
Day ceremonies on the green. He was introduced by
Allen F. Kenney, chairman of the Town of Lex-
ington Board of Selectmen.
200
Toasts of the President and President Kenneth D. Kaunda
of Zambia. April 19, 1975
Mr. President, Mrs. Kaunda, Kaweche Kaunda, distinguished guests:
Let me say that Mrs. Ford and I are extremely delighted to have you, Mr.
President, your family, and your distinguished guests with us here this evening.
It has been a great pleasure for me to talk to your lovely wife and to know of
your delightful family. And on behalf of Mrs. Ford and myself, we extend and
wish to you our very, very best.
Your visit to Washington is a mark of friendship that has existed between our
two nations since Zambia gained her independence in 1964.
America knows and respects you, Mr. President, but also I should say we
know that in the modern history of Zambia and the history of Kenneth Kaunda,
they are inseparable. Your moral and intellectual leadership guided your coun-
try to independence, and for that we praise you.
Your leadership has made your young nation an example of respect and
533
