[27]
January 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
I will forward to the Congress later this week draft legislation for such an
extension. I believe the right to vote is the foundation of freedom and equality.
It must be protected.
During his lifetime, Dr. King received the Nobel Prize and numerous other
awards. But shortly before his death 7 years ago, he said that he preferred to be
remembered not for these honors, but for his service to his fellow man.
Dr. King is remembered as he wished—and his memory continues to inspire
hope for America. We must not let his work die—that will be the highest tribute
of all.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:05 p.m. in the
Cabinet Room at the White House. His remarks
were recorded for later broadcast in commemora-
tion of Dr. King's birth on January 15, 1929.
The White House announced that the President
also had sent a telegram to Coretta Scott King ex-
pressing his high regard for the memory of her late
husband.
28
Address Before a Joint Session of the Congress Reporting on
the State of the Union. January 15, 1975
Mr. Speaker, Mr. Vice President, Members of the 94th Congress, and distin-
guished guests:
Twenty-six years ago, a freshman Congressman, a young fellow with lots of
idealism who was out to change the world, stood before Sam Rayburn in the
well of the House and solemnly swore to the same oath that all of you took
yesterday—an unforgettable experience, and I congratulate you all.
Two days later, that same freshman stood at the back of this great Chamber—
over there someplace—as President Truman, all charged up by his single-
handed election victory, reported as the Constitution requires on the state of the
Union.
When the bipartisan applause stopped, President Truman said, “I am happy
to report to this 81st Congress that the state of the Union is good. Our Nation
is better able than ever before to meet the needs of the American people, and
to give them their fair chance in the pursuit of happiness. [It] is foremost among
the nations of the world in the search for peace."
Today, that freshman Member from Michigan stands where Mr. Truman
stood, and I must say to you that the state of the Union is not good:
Millions of Americans are out of work.
Recession and inflation are eroding the money of millions more.
Prices are too high, and sales are too slow.
36
