May 6
[243]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I don't think there ought to be a change. I strongly
believe that a continuation of the basic policies of the last 8 years will be good
for America. And let me take a minute or two to talk about foreign policy.
A Republican administration ended the war in Vietnam. They withdrew
550,000 American military personnel. They brought back all of the POW's. The
United States under a Republican administration took the first meaningful steps
in trying to control nuclear arms, and I think we are going to have continued
success in that area.
In the domestic area, we have gone through a difficult time, but when you
look at the overall—a period of 8 years—I think domestically, there will be far
more pluses than minuses. And therefore, it is my judgment that the American
people—if we sell the program properly, we will have an excellent opportunity of
prevailing in November of 1976.
Q. Mr. President, on the economic issue-I assume that is what you are saying
here—but if the economy is at a low ebb next year, if unemployment is about
what it is now, can you win?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think the economic conditions in 1976 will be com-
parable to those today. I think we are at the end of the recession. I believe that we
can look forward to some improvement economically in the third and fourth
quarters of 1975, and they ought to improve in 1976. Therefore, in my judgment,
we will be looking in the future towards better times at home and a good foreign
policy abroad.
VIETNAM CONFLICT
[10.] Q. Mr. President, events in Indochina outran the deliberative process
of the Congress, and you weren't given the clearly defined authority to use U.S.
forces to evacuate there because of Cambodia and Vietnam. My question goes
to the matter of whether it was a personal dilemma for you as Commander in
Chief to use U.S. forces without the expressed concurrence of the Congress?
THE PRESIDENT. Our prime objective, of course, both in the evacuation from
Phnom Penh in Cambodia and in Saigon was to bring all Americans out of
both locations. Now, in the process it did appear to be wise, particularly in
Saigon, to take out a number of South Vietnamese.
We did that because, number one, we felt that a number of these South Viet-
namese had been very loyal to the United States and deserved an opportunity
to live in freedom, and secondly, the possibility existed if we had not brought
out some South Vietnamese, that there could have been anti-American attitudes
developed that would have complicated the evacuation of our American per-
647
