[82]
February 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
secondly, the severe strain increased petroleum prices have caused, not only to
our economy but those of the world's industrialized nations.
As I have indicated, America is not in control of its energy destiny right now.
Price leadership has shifted to the Arab nations and to other members of the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries. I am determined that Amer-
ican independence in energy be restored. We must never again be forced to pay
the cartel-manipulated, inflated prices of foreign oil.
However, we must pay a price now to insure a more reasonable price for
our oil in the future. And that price is what it will cost us to produce American
oil on American soil—right here in the State of Texas, in Alaska, in the Outer
Continental Shelf, and elsewhere within our territorial limits.
Now, some people in Washington do not seem to recognize the need for
incentives in the marketplace, but we must, in my judgment, have sufficient
incentives in the marketplace to increase production. Unless we create incentives,
we will be settling for dependence on other nations.
Personally, I am very sensitive to the dramatic cost increases in domestic oil
and gas exploration and development. The facts, as I understand them, are
just about the following: In the last 12 to 18 months, the cost of drilling a well
has gone up 100 percent or more. With those facts in mind, I think we have to
understand the need for incentives. I have seen estimates that the petroleum
industry might budget as much as $26 billion for capital spending in 1975 on
expansion projects throughout the country to help boost our energy supply.
However, many of the proposed projects may never see the light of the day if
the Congress fails to act on legislation that I have requested.
I have proposed a very comprehensive energy program. It is not a program
that is without cost or without sacrifices, but it is a program that will keep costs
and inequities as low as possible, still achieving our objective of energy
independence.
I suspect in this room many of you may not support all of what I have pro-
posed, but as I must say again, I have seen no better program proposed. And let
me illustrate, if I might, my program and what the Congress has been working
on so far since January 14, when they reconvened.
Here is a copy of the bill put together by myself and my advisers, 167 pages
of a comprehensive program to increase supply and to conserve in the utiliza-
tion or importation of foreign oil; 167 pages, leaving out, because it is traditional
in the Congress, the specific recommendations of any tax changes. But the title
of the bill, I think, is important: To increase domestic energy supplies and
210
