[204]
April 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. I think we can persuade the ones that will look at the facts.
I think a lot of them will, because they know of his fine record.
JOHN CONNALLY
[12.] MR. CRONKITE. Do you see a role for John Connally in 1976 in the
Republican Party?
THE PRESIDENT. I think so. I think John Connally-he was acquitted; all
charges have been dismissed.³ He has a clean slate, and he has got the record
in the courts to prove it. So, I think there could be a role for John Connally in
the Republican Party in 1976.
MR. CRONKITE. What about bringing him back into your government? Is that
a possibility?
The President. We hadn't gotten to that point, but if we find a spot where
he would fit and he was willing, I think he would make a fine addition to any
administration. I thought he was an excellent Secretary of the Treasury.
FOREIGN POLICY
[13.] MR. CRONKITE. Mr. President, I think we have got time for a final
question, gentlemen, and I am all wound up with one.
Two hundred years ago, this new Nation gave promise to the world of new
concepts of freedom, of independence, of the dignity of the individual. Today,
we find ourselves as a great power, as a gendarme to the world, and as an arms
supplier to the world.
Last week, to the Daughters of the American Revolution you said, "Like it or
not, we are a great power, and our real choice is whether we succeed or fail in a
role we cannot shirk." What is that role?
THE PRESIDENT. The role is one of leadership to the free world and leadership,
really, in trying to make a better world not only for those in the United States,
those aligned with us, but hopefully, those in countries where we don't have
alliances or friendly relations.
I think the United States has the potential, has the responsibility on the
broadest basis I know to make this a better place in which to live.
And I think, as long as I am President, I am going to make a maximum
effort in that way, diplomatically, economically, in every way that I can
conceive.
3 See footnote 3, page 225.
558
