[219]
April 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
expand, not cut back, the opportunity for the free enterprise system. We have to
cut back on all of these programs that some of our good friends across the political
aisle try to thrust upon us.
Let me make one observation, if I might. Bill Whitehurst, Ken Robinson,
Caldwell Butler, Bill Wampler, and others who I served with in the House of
Representatives know that it is just impossible to believe all of the things that
some of our Democratic friends want to thrust upon the American people. They
want to put more bureaucracy; they want to spend more Federal money. I have
talked to your great Senator, Bill Scott, about this.
But as these people who we disagree with try to thrust these programs one
after another, on top of one another, I often used to sit back in the rear seats of the
House of Representatives and ask myself, “Didn't they realize that a government
big enough to give us everything we want is a government big enough to take
from us everything we have?"
As Republicans, we believe in the opportunity for individuals, in the
responsibility for individuals. We believe in local and State government. We
believe in a strong foreign policy with a policy of national defense that is suffi-
cient to protect our interests and to help those who want to help themselves.
We do believe that the Republican Party is the only vehicle today that can
give Americans in all 50 States the opportunity to express these basic, funda-
mental, philosophical views.
I thank you for helping with your presence and your contributions so we
can continue the fight under the leadership of Mills Godwin and others.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:42 p.m. in the Chesapeake Room at the Marriott Twin Bridges Hotel.
220
Remarks at the Annual Meeting of the Chamber of Commerce
of the United States. April 28, 1975
Chairman Smith, President Booth, members and guests of the United States
Chamber of Commerce:
It is like a spring tonic to appear before a meeting of the Chamber of Com-
merce, and I thank you most generously for your warm welcome. Individually
as well as collectively, you have always presented such an upbeat, positive
approach to America that it really feels good to be with you this morning.
598
