[187]
April 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
May I express a very special welcome to all of those who have made a con-
tribution and participated in making this dinner possible.
I think all of us recognize that the new campaign laws created a new ball
game in financing House and Senate races. As a contributor, each and every one
of you are limited to a maximum contribution of $1,000 for each candidate for
each Federal office.
In practice, this means—and I think we have to be cognizant of the problem—
that our party must attract even more thousands of small, individual contribu-
tors. Our record in the past of such broad support is really excellent despite some
of the things that are written. And as I look at what I know has happened
in my own Congressional district and in our State and even nationally, I am
proud of what we have accomplished.
But the facts of life are if we are to compete, we must do infinitely better. I
believe this trend to a larger number of small contributors will be a great
blessing.
It has long been my conviction—and I am sure Ted and Guy and Mary Louise
share it—that anyone who gives as little as $1 becomes committed by this in-
dividual action to helping either a candidate or a party.
By your presence here tonight—and I thank you and I am most grateful—
each and every one of you are demonstrating the long-time faith all of us—those
of us here on the platform as well as you-share in a party with principles and
its most fundamental goals.
Obviously, I am delighted to have seen so many young people. I had the
privilege, during dinner and before, to meet many of them, so many young
people from many States here this evening.
I don't like to say something that isn't a matter of record, but it is. I was an
early sponsor of lowering the voting age to 18. Now, some throughout the coun-
try disagreed with that point of view in those days when we were battling that
issue, fearing that young people would automatically vote for the other party.
But I felt then, and I feel even more strongly now, that the intelligent judgment
of youth would attract very, very many-in fact a majority-to our party. And
I must say, as I have looked at some of the statistics, that I am gratified with
the results, and I am optimistic that we will do even better in the future.
Young people today are a vital source of new Republican energy, Republican
idealism, and Republican ideas. To young Republicans everywhere, I say we
welcome you and, most emphatically, we need you.
As Ted, Guy, and Mary Louise have said, the proceeds from this dinner go
488
