March 26
[158]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
urged an uncomplicated tax refund to put extra purchasing power in the hands
of American taxpayers.
I urge the conferees basically to accept the House bill with minor revisions. I
am prepared to work with the Committees and the Congress as long as necessary
to assure the American people of a reasonable tax cut which will stimulate the
economy without jeopardizing its future.
Sincerely,
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters addressed
to the Honorable Carl Albert, Speaker of the House
GERALD R. FORD
of Representatives, and the Honorable James O.
Eastland, President pro tempore of the Senate.
158
Remarks at the Swearing In of Frederick B. Dent as Special
Representative for Trade Negotiations. March 26, 1975
Mr. Secretary:
This is a really great occasion. You become, after the swearing-in ceremony,
an official member of the White House family.
Unfortunately, it means that you have to leave the Department of Commerce,
and you go from "Mr. Secretary” to “Mr. Ambassador,” but you did such a fine
job over in the Department of Commerce that when we were looking for
someone who would take on this new responsibility, you were a person that I
knew and everybody knew would do a first-class job.
Now, you have got great difficulties ahead of you. You have to deal in this new
capacity as a Special Trade Representative with some 100-plus foreign countries,
negotiating the very delicate trade problems between other countries and our-
selves and between all countries together.
But you also have an added difficulty, and that is convincing the Congress
that you are carrying out the mission that was given to you and to this Adminis-
tration to make the trade legislation work for the benefit of the United States
and the world as a whole.
I don't envy the difficulties you have, but I am confident that you can carry
them out in an outstanding way.
It is a great privilege and pleasure for me to participate in the swearing in.
You have had some outstanding predecessors, such as Chris Herter, who is
known by many here. You follow in the footsteps of Bill Eberle, who did a fine
401
