[371]
July 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
think, to all of us is that we can feel very secure that the future of America is in
very good hands.
I am sure they'll do an infinitely better job than we have done, and that is
certain because of their educational opportunities and their great exposure to
not only the problems of the day here at home but the difficulties of our prob-
lems around the world.
Now, for the past few days all of you have had a wonderful opportunity to
see very closely, very intimately, the workings of our Federal Government here
in Washington, and I hope that this personal experience has given you a far
better idea of how our system of Government actually operates.
I also hope that when you have acquired your experience here, that in the
process of learning about our Government, it may encourage many of you to
become active participants in government at the local, the State, or the Federal
level. Your leadership, your intelligence could play a very vital role in writing
the agenda for America's third century.
As you are all very well aware, the learning process, like the political one,
must be a two-way street, for in a sense, as I see it, the greatest wisdom consists
in knowing that no one ever has all of the answers.
It is through the free exchange of varied ideas that real wisdom, the kind of
wisdom enshrined in our Declaration of Independence, in our Constitution, and
in our Bill of Rights, is attained. And as all of us approach our Bicentennial, I
believe we can be proud that in spite of the follies of a few individuals, relatively
speaking, the collective wisdom of democracy has managed to prevail and do
more for freedom and more for the beneficiaries of it than any other system in the
history of mankind.
I do hope that you will always remember that the learning process in America
reflects the true substance of our democratic life here, chiefly because our system
of government is a great and good learning process.
Our very unique experience in self-government has been going on for almost
200 years because we have succeeded in retaining the open experiment, the spirit
of open experiment, of confronting each new challenge with wisdom gained
from the past. And I hope that each of you will go back to your communities,
your colleges, your universities, with a renewed sense of purpose and direction,
to learn well the lessons of the past, that you may deal more wisely with the
future.
I trust that you will contribute, through your scholarship and your practical
experience, new thought and new insights into our national wisdom. In this way
you will strengthen the American democracy which all of us cherish.
908
