July 9
[390]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Existing legislation passed by Congress last December 18, with an effective
date of February 5, 1975, has been in force for nearly five months. This action
has: (1) called into question the ability of an Ally to continue to fulfill its es-
sential NATO responsibilities, thus undermining NATO's strength in the
Eastern Mediterranean; (2) jeopardized vital common defense installations
which Turkey and the U.S. jointly maintain; (3) contributed to tensions which
are not helpful to Greece; and (4) reduced American influence to move the
Cyprus negotiations toward a peaceful conclusion acceptable to all parties.
The legislation voted against Turkey last December is sweeping in its effect. It
is more extensive than similar legislation enacted in October, 1974, with which
the Administration was in full compliance. The December legislation provides
for not only a total embargo on grant military assistance, and cash and credit
sales of defense items by the U.S. Government, but prohibits as well the issu-
ance of licenses to permit the export of military equipment purchased from
American firms. Practically all nations of the world can purchase in this
country at least some items that are forbidden to Turkey. It is now impossible
for Turkey to procure most items produced in third countries under U.S.
license; nor can Turkey even take possession of merchandise in the U.S. which
it paid for prior to February 5 and which is now ready for shipment. The result
is that a relationship of trust and confidence with this important NATO Ally,
built up over many years, has been seriously eroded. Continuation of the em-
bargo risks further deterioration, jeopardizing our security interests throughout
the Eastern Mediterranean area.
For all these reasons, it is my strong view that the Administration and the
Congress must join in legislative action that will remedy the present situation.
The form that legislation should take to achieve this end is for Congress itself
to decide, but it is clear that only legislation can produce the actions which are
necessary in this case.
I know that in the minds of many in the Congress there remains the issue
of how American-supplied arms were used last summer. The Cyprus problem
is one where neither moral nor legal judgments, on the arms issue or any other,
can be easily or lightly made. Yet, the effect of the embargo is to ascribe blame
totally to one of the parties in a dispute that has its roots in centuries of animosity
and for which both sides must share some responsibility.
Where we can all agree, and where I believe we must all act together, is in
our sense of anxiety and concern over the Cyprus problem and in a consensus
that the only way to achieve what we all seek—a just and broadly acceptable
settlement—is through negotiations in which we maintain maximum flexibility
947
