| April 9
[175]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Therefore, I urge you to join with me in renewing and reaffirming our com-
mitment and our dedication to the purposes of the National Alliance of Busi-
nessmen in order to truly help America work.
You, by your own success, have set an example. You, by your own contribu-
tions, can help others achieve what you have achieved by work, and that makes
America work.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:30 p.m. in the
East Room at the White House. In his opening
remarks, he referred to Willard F. Rockwell, Jr.,
immediate past chairman of the board, Carl E.
Hartnack, chairman of the board, John P. Condon,
president, and Robert J. Wilson, executive vice
president and secretary-treasurer, National Alliance
of Businessmen.
175
Letter to the Speaker of the House and the President of the
Senate Transmitting Proposed Legislation To Reestablish the
Executive Reorganization Authority. April 9, 1975
EFFECTIVE management of the Executive Branch requires adaptability to
changing circumstances and problems.
The organizational structure of the Executive Branch should foster both effi-
ciency and flexibility. A tool on which my predecessors relied to achieve these
objectives is the reorganization plan authority. This mechanism will be very
useful in our efforts to meet the challenges we now face. Therefore, I am
transmitting to you a draft bill entitled "To reestablish the period within which
the President may transmit to the Congress plans for the reorganization of
agencies of the Executive Branch of the Government, and for other purposes.”
The Reorganization Act of 1949 (5 U.S.C., Chapter 9) requires the President
to "examine the organization of all agencies" and "determine what changes in
such organization are necessary." However, specific authority under this act to
submit Reorganization Plans which define such necessary changes expired on
April 1, 1973. Thus, this bill seeks to restore the authority necessary to fulfill
my statutory obligation to study and propose Executive reorganizations.
Historically, there has been bi-partisan support for extension of this authority.
Since 1949, all Presidents have made use of this mechanism-93 Presidential
plans have been submitted and 73 have been approved.
The original Reorganization Act of 1949 established the President's authority
to submit plans for a four-year period. In view of the mutual interest of both
Congress and the Executive Branch in efforts to increase the efficiency and
453
