March 7
[129]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
So, I ask my Democratic friends, who are in massive control of the Congress:
Where are the tough, coordinated, comprehensive programs which our urgent
and interrelated economic and energy problems demand? A piece here, a little
touch there—they don't add up to an effective total program. They are totally
inadequate.
So, I say in all sincerity to my critics in the Congress and elsewhere: If you
don't like my program, show me a better one.
Even on something so widely supported as a stimulative tax cut, which by all
standards ought to be something easy for the Congress to enact, there has been
the kind of delay that is totally inexcusable.
Extremely difficult choices must be made this year and in succeeding years
by the Congress to limit the growth of Federal budgets and Federal deficits. But
the results, so far, from Capitol Hill are very disappointing.
Unless Members of Congress have the political courage to cut back or cut
out various well-intentioned programs, we will soon come to a point, by simple
arithmetic, where half, just half, of this country's entire gross national product
will be taken by our various levels of government. Already—and this is hard
to believe—we are spending approximately one-third of our gross national prod-
uct to support government at all levels.
It is my judgment that this trend could destroy the fundamental free-
enterprise character of this country and the economic incentives which have
made us the leader of the industrialized democracies.
I believe that only a revitalized Republican leadership in all branches of gov-
ernment can change this distressing course. The accumulated actions of some 38
years of Democratic-controlled Congress out of the last 42 years will not be
reversed by this Congress. I don't intend to turn in my key to the White House
until we have reversed this trend.
Now, it can be argued by some that because our national problems are so
serious, we should not be wasting time on the problems of our party—or any
other party. Yet it is precisely because of our national problems that it is essential
to look to our party and its revitalization everywhere.
I know what the polls show as well as you, and I say with all the conviction
that I can command: The standing of our party has hit its lowest point, as far
as I am concerned, and it is going upward from this point at this gathering.
But let's be honest about it. If we fail to rebuild effectively, the cost would not
be measured by the fate of the Republican Party itself. It would be measured,
more importantly, by the deprivation of a basic right of all Americans, a free
339
