[232]
May 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
everything possible to avoid imposing them again. Our farm products must have
unfettered access to world markets.
This Administration is determined to act in support of the American farmer
and his best interests. It will not act to distort his market. We must hold the
budget line if we are all to enjoy the benefits of a prosperous, stable, non-
inflationary economy.
For all these reasons, I cannot approve this act.
The White House,
May 1, 1975.
NOTE: The House of Representatives sustained the
President's veto on May 13, 1975.
GERALD R. FORD
For the President's statement on the House action,
see Item 252.
233
Toasts of the President and Prime Minister Hedi Nouira
of Tunisia. May 1, 1975
Mr. Prime Minister:
First let me welcome you and your party to the White House this evening. And
may I express the warmth of the American people for you and the people that
you represent and, particularly, President Bourguiba.
I thought the meeting that we had this morning discussing some of the very
important matters involving the Mediterranean, Middle East were very helpful.
We look forward to working with you and others in trying to make progress in
that vital area of the world.
I couldn't help, as I looked at some of the material that came to me concerning
your visit, to note the long, long relationship that your country and our country
have had, going back to the latter part of the 18th century. We are proud of that
longstanding as well as currently warm relationship. We trust that as we move
into the days ahead, there can be a broadening and expansion, deepening of that
relationship.
As we look at the progress in your country, which includes great educational
advancements for your people, social progress for the people of Tunisia, an
increase in the per capita income of the people of Tunisia, you should be very
proud of the progress that has been achieved. But I know that the efforts of your
President, of you, and others are aimed toward greater progress in the days ahead.
We compliment you and congratulate you on what has been done, and let me
622
