June 20
[342]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
the statement of purposes for which LEAA block grant funds can be utilized.
Too often, the courts, the prosecutors and the public defenders are overlooked
in the allocation of criminal justice resources. If we are to be at all effective in
fighting crime, state and local court systems, including prosecution and defense,
must be expanded and enhanced.
In conclusion, I emphasize again that the Federal government cannot, by it-
self, bring an end to crime in the streets. The Federal government can seek
the cooperation and participation of State and local governments. Such coopera-
tion is vitally important to this effort. The cumulative effect of persistent Fed-
eral, State and local efforts to improve our laws and eliminate difficulties that
encumber our criminal justice system offers the only hope of achieving a steady
reduction in crime.
I am confident that, if the Congress enacts the programs that I have recom-
mended, the means available for an effective attack on crime will have been
substantially strengthened. I call upon the Congress to act swiftly on these
recommendations. I also call upon State and local governments to move rapidly
in strengthening their processes of criminal justice. Together, we will restore
to this nation that sense of domestic tranquility so essential to the pursuit of
happiness.
The White House,
June 19, 1975.
342
GERALD R. FORD
Statement on Receiving Final Report of the Commission
on Revision of the Federal Court Appellate System.
June 20, 1975
I AM pleased to have received today the final report of the Commission on
Revision of the Federal Court Appellate System. The members of the Com-
mission deserve the appreciation of the country for the care which they have
devoted to this report.
One could not ask for a more dedicated Chairman than Senator Roman L.
Hruska. His able leadership during the entire life of the Commission is to be
commended. Also, the Commission itself is noteworthy, not only because of the
superior quality of each of the members but because it includes leading Mem-
851
