May 27
[283]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Lynn Townsend probably is losing one of his very finest young people in his
Chrysler organization.
It just seems to me that Lowell Perry is the right person to do a fine job in the
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, and I look forward to the job
that he will do.
This Administration is totally dedicated to the elimination of any discrimina-
tion in the area of sex, race, creed, color, or what have you. Under the leader-
ship of Lowell Perry, I am certain and positive that that dedication to that
cause will be carried out.
And it is a great privilege, Lowell, for me to participate in your oath-taking
with your old friend, and a friend of mine, Judge Damon Keith of the Federal
Court in Detroit.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:58 p.m. in the
Rose Garden at the White House. Damon Keith,
District Judge for the Eastern District of Michigan,
administered the oath of office.
Mr. Perry's response to the President's remarks is
printed in the Weekly Compilation of Presidential
Documents (vol. 11, p. 562).
283
Address to the Nation on Energy Programs.
May 27, 1975
Good evening.
Last January 15, I went before your Senators and Representatives in Congress
with a comprehensive plan to make our country independent of foreign sources
of energy by 1985. Such a program was long overdue. We have become in-
creasingly at the mercy of others for the fuel on which our entire economy
runs.
Here are the facts and figures that will not go away. The United States is
dependent on foreign sources for about 37 percent of its present petroleum
needs. In 10 years, if we do nothing, we will be importing more than half our
oil at prices fixed by others-if they choose to sell to us at all. In 2½ years, we
will be twice as vulnerable to a foreign oil embargo as we were two winters
ago.
We are now paying out $25 billion a year for foreign oil. Five years ago we
paid out only $3 billion annually. Five years from now, if we do nothing, who
knows how many more billions will be flowing out of the United States. These
are not just American dollars, these are American jobs.
729
