January 22
[39]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
United States had already unilaterally renounced these weapons before the
convention was negotiated. Our entire stockpile of biological and toxin agents
and weapons has been destroyed, and our biological warfare facilities have been
converted to peaceful uses.
The convention provides that it will come into force upon the deposit of
instruments of ratification by the three depositaries—the United States, the
United Kingdom, and the U.S.S.R.—and at least 19 other countries. Thirty-
seven countries have already ratified the convention. The United Kingdom has
completed the parliamentary procedures for ratification, and the Soviet Union
has announced its intention to ratify very soon. While I have signed the U.S.
instrument of ratification today, its deposit will be deferred until we have
coordinated that action with the United Kingdom and the U.S.S.R.
It is my earnest hope that all nations will find it in their interest to join in
this prohibition against biological weapons.
39
Remarks at a Dinner Meeting of the Conference Board.
January 22, 1975
Thank you very much, Fletch. Sandy Trowbridge, officers, members, and guests
of the Conference Board:
It is a great privilege and a very high honor to have the honor of participating
in this evening. I have had a number of fond memories of previous experiences
and exposure to the Conference Board, and each and every one has been a great
experience, and I thank you for tonight as well as for those in the past.
I do welcome this opportunity to meet and to speak with this leadership
group representing the American business community and to discuss, as I see
it, some of our common problems. In that regard, your invitation to be here
tonight could not have been better timed.
Last week, as some of you may have noted, I spoke to the American people
and to the Congress about the state of the Union. And in the circumstances
in which we live today, the state of the Union really boils down to the state of
the economy.
I outlined during those several speeches a fair and a balanced program of
economic measures: a $16 billion tax cut, a ceiling on increases in Federal salaries
and cost-of-living-related payments, and a moratorium on new, non-energy
Government spending programs.
75
