[341]
June 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
reduce the incidence of crime in the United States. Yet, throughout this period,
crime has continued to increase. Indeed, the Federal Bureau of Investigation's
latest estimates are that the rate of serious crime-murder, forcible rape, rob-
bery, aggravated assault, buglary, larceny and auto theft-was 17 percent higher
in 1974 than in 1973. This is the largest increase in the 44 years the Bureau has
been collecting statistics.
Since 1960, although billions of dollars have been spent on law enforcement
programs, the crime rate has more than doubled. Moreover, these figures re-
flect only the reported crimes. A study of unreported crime sponsored by the
Law Enforcement Assistance Administration indicates that the actual level of
crime in some cities is three to five times greater than that reported.
More significantly, the number of crimes involving threats of violence or
actual violence has increased. And the number of violent crimes in which the
perpetrator and the victim are strangers has also increased. A recent study
indicates that approximately 65 percent of all violent crimes are committed
against strangers.
The personal and social toll that crime exacts from our citizens is enormous.
In addition to the direct damage to victims of crime, violent crimes in our
streets and in our homes make fear pervasive.
In many areas of the country, especially in the most crowded parts of the
inner cities, fear has caused people to rearrange their daily lives. They plan
shopping and recreation during hours when they think the possibilities of
violent attacks are lower. They avoid commercial areas and public transit.
Frightened shopowners arm themselves and view customers with suspicion.
The individual, political and social costs of crime cannot be ignored. They
demand our attention and coordinated action. With the firm support of the
American people, all levels of government—Federal, State and local—must
commit themselves to the goal of reducing crime.
For too long, law has centered its attention more on the rights of the criminal
defendant than on the victim of crime. It is time for law to concern itself more
with the rights of the people it exists to protect.
In thinking about this problem, I do not seek vindictive punishment of the
criminal, but protection of the innocent victim. The victims are my primary
concern. That is why I do not talk about law and order and why I turn to the
Constitutional guarantee of domestic tranquility. The emphasis in our efforts
must be providing protection for the victims of crime.
In this message, I shall address myself to what I believe the Federal govern-
ment can and should do to reduce crime. The fact is, however, that the Fed-
840
