April 25
[217]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
The principal role of the Federal Government in the area of crime control
has centered in providing financial and technical assistance to the several States.
However, while we are all aware that the actual control of crime in this country
is a matter primarily of State responsibility under the Constitution, there are
several areas in which it is the chief responsibility of the Federal Government.
We can provide leadership in making funds available to add judges, prosecu-
tors, and public defenders to the Federal system. This Federal model should
encourage States to adopt similar priorities for the use of their own funds and
those provided by the Law Enforcement Assistance Administration.
We can encourage better use of existing prison facilities to minimize deten-
tion of persons convicted of minor crimes, thus making more room for the
convicted felons to be imprisoned. There are a number of estimates of how
much the crime rate would be reduced if all convicted criminals with major
records were sent to prison instead of being set free after conviction, as too many
are today.
Although we might expect the certainty of a prison sentence to serve as a
deterrent, let us remember that one obvious effect of prison is to separate law-
breakers from the law-abiding society. In totalitarian states it's easier to assure
law and order. Dictators eliminate freedom of movement, of speech, and of
choice. They control the news media and the educational system. They con-
script the entire society and deprive people of basic civil liberties. By such
methods, crime can be strictly controlled. But in effect, the entire society be-
comes one huge prison. This is not a choice we are willing to consider.
Edmund Burke commented appropriately in his “Reflections on the French
Revolution." Burke said, and I quote: "To make a government requires no great
prudence. Settle the seat of power, teach obedience, and the work is done. To
give freedom is still more easy. It is not necessary to guide; it only requires to
let go the rein. But to form a free government, that is, to temper together these
opposite elements of liberty and restraint in one consistent work, requires much
thought, deep reflection, a sagacious, powerful, and combining mind."
Since these words were written, the world has changed profoundly. But the
old question still remains: Can a free people restrain crime without sacrificing
fundamental liberties and a heritage of compassion?
I am confident of the American answer. Let it become a vital element on
America's new agenda. Let us show that we can temper together those opposite
elements of liberty and restraint into one consistent whole.
Let us set an example for the world of a law-abiding America glorying in
593
