[316]
June 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
I think I can be benefited immeasurably by meeting face-to-face with people
like Prime Minister Rabin and President Sadat. This judgment by our Gov-
ernment in this area is a major decision, and we have to get the broadest pos-
sible information to make the best judgment. And in both instances, as well
as others, I am glad to have the help and assistance of those who come from
that area of the world.
THE CONGRESS
[12.] Q. Mr. President, some of your critics in Congress argue that your veto
of legislation, such as the public service jobs bill, amounts to a minority rule.
Is it your judgment that the next year, year and a half will be a series of veto
confrontations and stalemate?
THE PRESIDENT. There is no need for it if the Congress acts responsibly in
the handling of the Federal fiscal affairs. I would hope that the veto that was
sustained last week will put the proper environment on Capitol Hill for a
responsible fiscal policy by the Congress.
If the Congress ignores the desire on the part of the President and more than
a third of the House to be responsible fiscally, then of course, we will have
more vetoes.
I would hope that there might be a lesson learned, and that we will have
responsibility rather than irresponsibility by the Congress.
REPORTER. Thank you, Mr. President.
NOTE: President Ford's fifteenth news conference began at 7:30 p.m. in the Rose Garden at the White
House. It was broadcast live on radio and television.
317
Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual Plan for
United States Participation in the World Weather Program.
June 10, 1975
To the Congress of the United States:
People everywhere recognize that weather influences day-to-day activities.
People are also mindful that weather, sometimes violent, breeds storms that take
lives and destroy property. Coupled with these traditional concerns, there is
now a new awareness of the cumulative effects of weather. The impact of cli-
mate and climatic fluctuations upon global energy, food and water resources
poses a potential threat to the quality of life everywhere.
798
