[396]
July 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
sir, is: Does your Administration tolerate this conduct, particularly in the mili-
tary sales program, or is it necessary to meet the competition?
THE PRESIDENT. If the payments are legally construed to be bribes, I forcefully
condemn such payments. I am not going to discuss the legal ramifications of
these payments. Some people have one view and some another, as lawyers often
do, but if they are determined to be bribes, I forcefully condemn them.
Q. Sir, under American law, there is no American law to prohibit these prac-
tices, and I am just wondering if you see a need for a change in the law, par-
ticularly as it relates to defense contracts.
The President. If there isn't a law that covers a bribe in these circumstances,
then I think such legislation should be enacted.
URBAN PROGRAMS
[11.] Q. Mr. President, some of your critics say that your Administration is
insensitive to the urban crisis. I know that you met last night for about 20
minutes with Mayor Daley. Did you discuss the urban crisis with him, and what
about the criticism?
THE PRESIDENT. First, I don't think there is legitimate criticism that this
Administration isn't compassionate. This Administration, on the record, has
an achievement of compassion. And let me quickly illustrate.
We have made available for the cities, for individuals, in the budget that I
submitted for the current fiscal year, more money to meet the problems of the
less fortunate in our society and for the cities that need help and assistance.
We have recommended to the Congress, for example, the extension of gen-
eral revenue sharing, and instead of limiting the amount of money, we have
provided for an annual increase that would go to the cities, providing, of course,
the Congress approves it.
We have made some other recommendations which would make it easier
for the cities to meet the problem with general revenue sharing.
Now, I also pointed out to Mayor Daley—and it was a very friendly and, I
think, very constructive discussion—that the general revenue sharing program
plus the multitude of categorical grant programs will be helpful in the solution
of the financial problems, the human problems in our cities, and that we have
to get together-the mayors, the White House, and the Congress-to make sure
that these programs and these dollars are available, and too much tinkering with
the existing law in the general revenue sharing might be harmful rather than
helpful.
I also was glad to tell Mayor Daley—I think he knew it maybe a few hours
972
