February 6
[75]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
We know that you have the capacity and the
material and the ability to do so, and we leave
your shores feeling more reassured with the meas-
ures that you have taken to promote those Olympian
ends.
Finally, Mr. President, I would like to reiterate
our gratitude to you, to your Secretary of State, to
your colleagues here, to the Senators we met today,
for the understanding of the problems that we face
and for their objective appreciation of our difficulties.
This has been a fruitful and a constructive visit.
I better not say more than that because the
Secretary of State has told me that you must be very
careful of what you say. [Laughter]
So, I would like everyone to join me in a toast
to the President of the United States, to Mrs. Ford,
to the great American people, and to the role of
the United States in the consolidation of world
peace.
Mr. President.
75
Letter to the Speaker of the House and the President of the Senate
Transmitting Proposed Surface Mining Legislation.
February 6, 1975
OUR Nation is faced with the need to find the right balance among a number
of very desirable national objectives. We must find the right balance because
we simply cannot achieve all desirable objectives at once.
In the case of legislation governing surface coal mining activities, we must
strike a balance between our desire for environmental protection and our need
to increase domestic coal production. This consideration has taken on added
significance over the past few months. It has become clear that our abundant
domestic reserves of coal must become a growing part of our Nation's drive for
energy independence.
Last December, I concluded that it would not be in the Nation's best inter-
ests for me to approve the surface coal mining bill which passed the 93rd Con-
gress as S. 425. That bill would have:
• Caused excessive coal production losses, including losses that are not nec-
essary to achieve reasonable environmental protection and reclamation re-
quirements. The Federal Energy Administration estimated that the bill,
during its first full year of operation would reduce coal production between
48 and 141 million tons, or approximately 6 to 18 percent, of the expected
production. Additional losses could result which cannot be quantified be-
cause of ambiguities in the bill. Losses of coal production are particularly
important because each lost ton of coal can mean importing four additional
barrels of foreign oil.
• Caused inflationary impacts because of increased coal costs and Federal ex-
penditures for activities which, however desirable, are not necessary at this
time.
199
