July 3
[374]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Take inflation, one of the most pernicious economic ills of the postwar era.
When I had the honor to visit Cincinnati last year about this time, inflation was
our biggest worry. We were anxious—and understandably so-about the double-
digit increase in the cost of living, an annual rate of inflation of more than 12
percent. Today the rate of inflation has been reduced to less than 6 percent. By
the end of the year, we hope it will be even lower.
If we succeed, it will be, in large measure, because we held the line against
a number of new Federal spending programs that would have fanned the
embers of inflation back into a raging fire.
By using the Presidential veto, the taxpayers, for example, will have been
saved an estimated $6 billion by 1977. I realize that each time I use the veto,
there will be some who complain. And I suspect if Governor Carroll does it,
he has some good Kentuckians who will complain. And if Jim does it, I am
sure there will be some good people in Ohio who will object. It is understandable.
Each special interest group in America—and there are literally thousands of
them—has targeted benefits that it wants from the Federal Government or
from your respective State governments. Each group has its good-faith, energetic
advocates in the Congress or in the State legislatures and well-meaning lobby-
ists throughout the country.
This, of course, is the American system. I understand it very well. But I want
to make sure the American people understand actually what is happening.
Just as a Congressman has a responsibility to represent the interests of his
State and his district—and I had the privilege and honor of doing that for
better than 25 years-I now have a duty to safeguard the broadest national
interest. I refer to the interest of 81 million taxpayers who must pick up the
tab for each of these new spending bills, either through a tax or an inflation or,
in some instances, both.
I take that responsibility seriously, as I am sure Governor Carroll and Gov-
ernor Rhodes do. The American people have a right to expect their President to
protect their interests. That is one reason the veto power exists in the Constitu-
tion and why I will use it when necessary.
But there is another important part of the Presidential veto which has not
been adequately discussed. This is the positive side of the veto. The veto is not
a negative, dead end device. In most cases, it is a positive means of achieving
legislative compromise and improvement-better legislation, in other words.
From my 25 years in the Congress and the time I have spent in the White
House, I am convinced beyond any doubt that the Founding Fathers put the
915
