February 26
[109]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
tax so that there will not be inequitable benefits from the energy crisis by the
oil companies.
GASOLINE RATIONING AND OIL IMPORT ALLOCATIONS
[8.] Q. Bill Groves from Jacksonville [WJXT-TV]. Mr. President, is it true
that either rationing or allocation would be less inflationary than the package
you have proposed and would be less burdensome on those least able to pay?
THE PRESIDENT. I do not think that is the fundamental issue that is involved.
Rationing, gasoline rationing, for example, would be very inequitable, and it
would not provide any stimulant for new sources of energy, either oil, natural
gas, or any of the others.
Allocation-import allocations I assume you are referring to-according to
the experts that have looked at it, that I have listened to, tell me that would
probably be more injurious to our economy than any other procedure that was
used. You would have government officials making arbitrary decisions as to how
much oil could go to one industry or to another, and that would inevitably be
discriminatory.
I happen to think that the price mechanism procedure which I have proposed
is a better plan, because it gives flexibility to users to make those basic decisions.
Now, the plan that I have recommended has—according to the experts that we
have talked with and I have listened to-would have a one-shot increase in cost.
On the other hand, through the tax rebate program that I have recommended,
the added energy cost to individuals, to business, to government would be re-
turned to those people who have had an added cost.
So, it would be neutral as far as the users are concerned, and it would stimulate
production, which is what we really want.
UNEMPLOYMENT
[9.] Q. Mr. President, now that unemployment has reached a very high
point—and it seems likely to go even higher-is there anything that you can
do as President to alleviate the situation without going to Congress. And if there
is, what is it and do you intend to do it, and if so, when?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, number one, we submitted an economic plan to the
Congress, a tax reduction proposal that would have returned to taxpayers or
resulted in a reduction in taxes of some $16.5 billion. That proposal is on the
agenda of the Congress.
I wish they would act more quickly, and some of our problems might be
alleviated. Other than that, I think we have to seek to restore public confidence
in the system and in the prospects for economic revival.
293
