[197]
April 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
truly revolutionized the world. America has not sought the conquest of territory,
but instead, the mutual support of all men and women who cherish freedom.
The Declaration of Independence has won the minds, it has won the hearts
of this world beyond the dreams of any revolutionary who has ever lived. The
two lanterns of Old North Church have fired a torch of freedom that has been
carried to the ends of the world.
As we launch this Bicentennial celebration, we Americans must remind our-
selves of the eternal truths by which we live. We must be reinspired by the
great ideals that created our country. We must renew ourselves as a people and
rededicate this Nation to the principles of two centuries ago.
We must revitalize the pride in America that has carried us from some of our
darkest hours to our brightest days. We must once again become masters of our
own destiny. This calls for patience, for understanding, for tolerance, and work
toward unity-unity of purpose, a unity based on reason, a unity based on hope.
This call is not new. It is as old as the Continental Congress of 200 years ago,
as legendary as Lincoln's legacy of more than 100 years ago, and as relevant as
today's call to Americans to join in the celebration of the Bicentennial.
Perhaps national unity is an impossible dream. Like permanent peace, per-
haps it will prove to be a never-ending search. But today we celebrate the most
impossible dream of our history, the survival of the Government and the
permanence of our principles of our Founding Fathers.
America and its principles have not only survived but flourished far beyond
anyone's dreams. No nation in history has undertaken the enormous enterprises
of the American people. No country, despite our imperfections, has done more
to bring economic and social justice to its people and to the world.
Yet, we have suffered great internal turmoil and torment in recent years.
Nevertheless, in all of the explosive changes of this and past generations, the
American people have demonstrated a rich reserve of reason and of hope.
There are few times in our history when the American people have spoken
with more eloquent reason and hope than during the tribulations and tests that
our Government and our economic system have endured during the past year.
Yet, the American people have stood firm.
The Nation has not been torn with irresponsible reaction. Rather, we are
blessed with patience, common sense, and a willingness to work things out. The
American dream is not dead. It simply has yet to be fulfilled.
In the economy and energy and the environment, in housing, in transporta-
tion, in education and communication, in social problems and social planning,
America has yet to realize its greatest contribution to civilization.
528
