February 26
[109]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
FOREIGN POLICY
[16.] Q. Mr. President, you have referred to the question of aid to Cambodia
as a moral one relating to the credibility of the United States. But is the issue of
credibility really at stake when so many of those with whom we would want
to maintain it criticized our involvement in that area to begin with and long
urged us to get out before we did?
THE PRESIDENT. Are you referring, sir, to other nations?
Q. Other nations, yes.
THE PRESIDENT. I do not think we can conduct American foreign policy on
the basis of what other nations think is in our best interest. The United States
has to predicate its foreign policy on what it thinks is in America's best interest.
Now, we respect the right of other nations to be critical of what we do, but
it is my responsibility and, I think, the responsibility of people in authority in
the United States to make decisions that are based on what we think is good
for America, and that is the way it will be decided as long as I am President.
SECRETARY OF STATE KISSINGER
[17.] Q. Mr. President, there has been a new crop of reports in recent
days about the possibility of Secretary Kissinger leaving office this year to be
succeeded by Ambassador Elliot Richardson. Could you comment on these
reports, and specifically, do you expect Dr. Kissinger to remain in office at least
until November of next year?
THE PRESIDENT. I happen to feel very strongly that Secretary Henry Kissinger
is an outstanding Secretary of State, and he and I have never discussed any
change in his responsibilities. I know of no plans of any kind whatsoever on my
part or his part to change the responsibilities, the very heavy and important
responsibilities that he has.
On the other hand, I recently submitted the name of Elliot Richardson to be
Ambassador to Great Britain. I picked him because I think he will do a first-class
job there, and he has been recently confirmed. And I am confident, when he
goes to London, he will carry out those responsibilities in that job in a very
exemplary way.
ILLEGAL ALIENS
[18.] Q. Mr. President, it is estimated by immigration officials here in south
Florida that there are up to 90,000 illegal aliens gainfully employed in southeast
Florida alone. It is also estimated our unemployment figure runs close to that
amount. What is your office doing to address itself to this particular problem?
297
