January 22
[39]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
There is a fashionable line of thinking in America today, as widespread as
it is false, that all we need to do to get Federal spending back in line is to hack
away at the defense establishment. There is nothing new about this approach.
Unfortunately, it is an error that seems to be endemic to Western democracies
in times of peace. Again and again, while totalitarian powers of one kind or
another have maintained or expanded their military strength in peacetime, the
democracies, primarily in the West, have neglected strong national and allied
defense, hoping for the best, but seldom preparing for the worst.
In our own case, defense outlays have remained virtually level in constant
dollars from 1969 to 1974. Since 1969, our military manpower has been reduced
by over 40 percent—if I recall the figures correctly, about 1,200,000 less in active
duty in our military.
In 1968, for example, at the peak of the Vietnam war, personnel costs for
the Department of Defense were only 42 percent of total military expenditures.
This fiscal year, 1975, personnel costs have risen to 55 percent of the $85 billion
defense budget-in other words, from 42 to 55 percent in the short span of
approximately 4 to 5 years.
This dramatic shift in how we allocate our defense dollars has prevented us
from doing all we should in research and development and the procurement
of modern weapons and equipment. In many areas, as a consequence, our mili-
tary services are faced with a very serious bloc obsolescence in arms as well as
material.
You know, the fashion is to deride excessive defense spending. The fact of
the matter is that defense outlays have been a dwindling part of our gross na-
tional product, falling from 8 to 9 percent in 1969 to less than 6 percent by 1976.
If the current declining defense trend continues, we will soon see the day—and
so will others—when our country no longer has the strength necessary to guar-
antee our freedom, to guarantee our security in an uneasy world.
We cannot let this happen. The defense budget I am about to propose to the
Congress will not let this happen. And this brings me to the third area of dis-
cussion this evening. For just as a strong defense establishment protects our
way of life, a strong, free economic system provides the goods, the jobs, and the
chance for upward mobility that have made us a land of opportunity and a great
land of abundance.
But if our economy is to grow and prosper, we have to encourage investment.
A rising standard of living implies rising output per man-hour, and that requires
even more investment per worker. To support every new job, industry must
79
