June 6
[311]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
311
Memorandum Establishing the Textile Trade Policy Group.
June 6, 1975
[Dated June 5, 1975. Released June 6, 1975]
Memorandum for: the Secretary of State, the Secretary of the Treasury, the
Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary of Commerce, the Secretary of
Labor, the Special Representative for Trade Negotiations, the Director,
Office of Management and Budget, the Chairman, Council of Economic
Advisers, the Executive Director of the Council on International Economic
Policy, the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs, the
Executive Director of the Domestic Council
This memorandum supersedes the memorandum of March 3, 1972 which
established a Special Working Group for Textile Trade Policy within the Coun-
cil on International Economic Policy. That Special Working Group is hereby
terminated and a new working group is hereby established in lieu thereof. This
new working group will be chaired by the Special Representative for Trade
Negotiations and will, in addition, consist of Under Secretaries of State, the
Treasury, Agriculture, Commerce and Labor and the Executive Director of
the Council on International Economic Policy. The chairman and each mem-
ber of the Group may designate a senior policy official from their respective
agencies to serve as an alternate member of the Group.
The duties of this new working group, hereinafter referred to as the Textile
Trade Policy Group, are as follows:
1. Advise generally with respect to policies affecting actions by the United
States concerning international trade in textiles and textile products under
Section 204 of the Agricultural Act of 1956, as amended, and other laws.
2. Establish procedures by which the Committee for the Implementation of
Textile Agreements shall, under the policy guidance of the Textile Trade Policy
Group, take actions with respect to the rights and obligations of the United
States under Articles 3 and 8 of the Arrangement Regarding International Trade
in Textiles, and with respect to any other matter affecting textile trade policy.
3. Develop policy proposals with respect to the negotiation of additional bi-
lateral and multilateral textile trade agreements.
4. Authorize and provide for the negotiation of bilateral agreements regard-
ing international trade in textiles which it determines to be appropriate with
representatives of governments of foreign countries.
781
