[190]
April 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
you to cause any trouble but, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you, this is a president?
I think all of you appreciate that I'm really only fooling. President Boston
has done an outstanding job as the chief executive of the White House News
Photographers Association. In fact, he was telling me that he recently com-
pleted his first term as president and has just been reelected unopposed to his
second term as president. Bernie, all I can say is, you sure know how to hurt a
fellow.
As you all know, photography is both an art and a science, and its practi-
tioners are always striving for the ultimate, for the perfect photograph.
In fact, my favorite photographic story was told to me by Frank Borman,
one of our famous astronauts. Frank said when he was 50,000 miles high, he
reached for his camera and took a picture of the entire Earth and all of the
people on it. I asked Frank, “How did it come out?" He said, "Not so good.
Somebody moved."
Well, at the White House, I feel we also have a richness of photographic
talent. There is an old saying that one picture is worth a thousand words. In
David Hume Kennerly, I get both.
I'm sure all of the professional people here, and many others, are familiar
with Dave Kennerly. Dave is known as the Ansel Adams ¹ of M Street. David
is one of the finest, most talented, most creative, most gifted photographers this
Nation has ever known. And that's not just my opinion, it's his, too.
But as I look about tonight, I see so many great photographic luminaries:
there is Cleve Ryan-and I know Cleve will be interested to know that by
Executive order, I have just named him postmaster of Air Force One-Frank
"Baby" Johnston, who has never fallen down on any job until we got him on
skis at Vail; and George Tames, who is perhaps best known for the work done
by his most famous and most celebrated pupil, Mathew Brady.
You know, personally, I have always enjoyed being with all of you, because
exciting things always seem to happen around news photographers.
Last year I was in San Francisco, and suddenly the floor started to tremble,
the walls started to sway, and the ceiling started to crack. I turned to Wally
McNamee and I asked, "San Francisco-earthquake?" He shook his head. He
said, "Roddey Mims-jogging."
Well, tonight let me salute Roddey and all of you other heavyweights in the
world of photography. You are the free spirits who capture the moment and
liberate the imagination. Throughout my entire political life, and before, I
A nature and wildlife photographer.
506
