March 20
[148]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Recently, I sent to the Congress a comprehensive energy and economic pro-
gram. It is designed to reduce our dependence on imported oil. The plan provides
incentives to increase domestic energy production and conserve energy use. The
United States is meanwhile developing joint policies with other major oil-
consuming countries aiming at increased resource development and more effi-
cient use of energy. The major consuming countries must act jointly to build a
constructive relationship with the oil producing nations. Such actions are essen-
tial to restore the international confidence in adequate and reliable energy
sources.
These interrelated economic activities are aimed at achieving an improved
international economic system. They are part of a balanced policy. They also
accentuate the positive initiatives being taken to cope with the specialized prob-
lems of food, assistance to less developed countries and East-West economic
relations.
The United States firmly believes that our own problems, and those of the
rest of the world, can be dealt with most effectively through international
cooperation. We lead in the pursuit of peace. Therefore, our motivating princi-
ples, our standards of conduct and the guidelines we set for the conduct of
international economic development are ever more crucial to our national
well-being, and that of the world.
The White House,
March 20, 1975.
GERALD R. FORD
NOTE: The report is entitled "International Economic Report of the President, Transmitted to the Congress
March 1975" (Government Printing Office, 166 pp.).
148
Remarks at a Luncheon for Participants in the Travel
Program for Foreign Diplomats. March 20, 1975
Thank you very much, Bob Anderson. President John Kircher, distinguished
foreign diplomats, guests, and particularly those who have so long and so well
supported this program:
It is really a great privilege and a very high honor to have the opportunity
of being here again and participating in this sort of culmination of the program
on a once-a-year basis. I was here once as a Congressman, and last year as Vice
President, and now I am equally honored to be here as President.
387
