[217]
April 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
Every time I come back to Yale, I find myself almost overwhelmed by nos-
talgia. It's been so long, and so much has happened since I first got off the
train at the New Haven station in 1935.
For the first several years, I was an assistant football coach. But during that
period, I decided against a career in athletics and set my goal as a degree in law.
At that time, one of the entrance requirements to the Yale Law School was a
personal interview with three distinguished members of the faculty. In my case,
one of them was Professor Myres McDougal, whom I'm delighted to see is with
us tonight. It was wonderful to chat with you, Myres, before dinner.
You might be interested to know that Professor McDougal, in remarks given
to the Yale Law School Association in Washington last year, mentioned the
fact that he still had his notes from that interview. He said that under the appro-
priate headings there were entries like the following: good looking, well dressed,
plenty of poise, personality—excellent. Then, under another heading: informa-
tional background-not too good. [Laughter]
Well, Professor McDougal doesn't know-or what he doesn't know is that
while he was keeping notes on me, I was keeping notes on him. And by coinci-
dence, I just happen to have them with me here tonight. Under the appropriate.
headings, I find entries like these: good looking, well dressed, plenty of poise,
personality—excellent. Then, under another heading: informational back-
ground about football-not so good. [Laughter] As I remember it, the only
benchwarmer Professor McDougal took an interest in at that time was Oliver
Wendell Holmes. [Laughter]
I won't go into any more details about that interview. Suffice it to say that
Professor McDougal was extraordinarily impressed with my capabilities and
so caught up with my capabilities and my vision of my potentialities that in a
whirlwind of enthusiasm, he wrote, “I see no reason why we should not take
him." [Laughter]
My biggest problem at that time was convincing the school I could continue
as a full-time assistant football coach and still carry on a full schedule in the
law school. Fortunately, I was able to convince them, and I've always been very
grateful for the help, the encouragement I consistently received from such great
educators as Gene Rostow, Thurman Arnold, Jimmy James, Harry Shulman,
and in particular, Myres McDougal. And I thank you very much.
Myres, all I can say is may your retirement provide you with the same riches
of fulfillment and satisfaction your career has already brought to the students
of Yale. May God go with you.
588
