March 7
[129]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
If what I hear from Mary Louise and others is correct—and I assume it is—
many in this audience are new at meetings of this sort. I was delighted to have
an opportunity to have dinner with some of those who either lucky or un-
lucky—have the prerogative of sitting at the head table. And I congratulate you
and thank you for having spent your own money to come here. [Laughter]
The new energy you are generating will obviously be felt very distinctly through-
out the Republican Party. Your involvement and your dedication, I hope, from
the inspiration of this meeting, will grow. And the net result is that our Na-
tion—and that is the important thing—will be the beneficiary.
I have read about, heard about, your program. It is extremely impressive.
You have had the broadest spectrum-or will have before you are through—
of individuals and philosophies within our party. And I wish to commend Mary
Louise and her coworkers for putting such an important emphasis on the
"nuts and bolts" which bind our party structure together.
I couldn't help but repeat at this time the delight that I had that 10 of your
colleagues selected at random have joined us at the head table, because in all
honesty, I think this symbolizes the new and broader base that our party seeks.
You know, nearly a year ago, I had the honor and privilege to appear before
a Republican meeting similar to this in Chicago. I said then that we must never
again permit an elite group or an elite guard serving a single purpose to exclude
and to ignore the regular party organization. And I renew that pledge to you
here tonight.
Then, as now,
I felt that working through and with the established party struc-
ture is the right way to go. New election reforms, particularly those dealing with
finances, validate the policy that I advocated a year ago.
They do not rule out committees and other voluntary organizations or groups
working in cooperation with the party structure. But they do tend to favor the
two-party system in which I have always profoundly believed.
As to my role in the Republican Party, you can be sure that whenever it is
proper and I stress that point-I intend to exert my efforts on behalf of good
Republican candidates and the rebuilding of Republicanism to the fullest, con-
sistent with my duties as President of the United States.
I think it is quite obvious the demands and the duties of the Presidency can
impose certain limitations on my political activities. But I pledge to you now
that I will be in the middle of the 1976 campaign, not only for the Presidency
but on behalf of Republican candidates for the House as well as the Senate. I
want to add that my efforts will include candidates for the governorships and
other elective offices across the United States. I think many of you in this
337
