[103]
February 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
respective communities don't know the facts. They are fed a propaganda line
that sounds good superficially but in truth could undercut our national security
today and in the future.
It may not be a popular line to speak up on behalf of, because of the propa-
ganda that comes from other sources. But you're right, and if you continue to
speak with the facts as they are—and they are available—time will prove that
you did much to save our country in the months and years ahead.
Let me say at this point that I, like all of you, believe in peace. I, like I suspect
all of you, believe in détente. And I believe that both peace and détente are
dependent on a strong defense. Therefore, I, like all of you, am determined to
maintain that military strength.
That is why I, as well as you, consider the $92.8 billion in defense spending
which has been requested in fiscal year 1976 a basic minimum to assure the
security of this Nation in an insecure world.
To your good friends, whose motives I don't challenge, who tell us that we
must substantially cut the cost of defense—must also, to be honest and frank
with all of us, acknowledge the risk involved. The declaration which our fore-
fathers signed in 1776 launched the independence of this great Nation. And I
will tell you this tonight: I, like you, will not sign any declaration of dependence
and inferiority.
Not all good men agree on goodness. Not all just men agree on justice. But
all free men agree that freedom requires sacrifice. It is costly. We must be
willing to pay its full price.
Over the past 200 years, the American people have willingly paid the full
price of freedom. I promise you that I, like you, will never turn our backs on
defense, because we all remember when it saved freedom. I will never accept—
nor will you—second best in defense, nor will I ever, like you, reject any full
commitment to our Armed Forces and our solemn duty to the American
people.
Without strength, we can have no freedom. Without freedom, we can have
no peace. But with strength, we can have a world in which our children and our
grandchildren can live both in freedom and in peace.
As a Reserve officer, like most of you here tonight—or as a former Reserve
officer-I am aware of the dedication of each of you to the uniform in which
you serve or did serve. Even more, I am fully aware of your patriotism and
allegiance to our country. You and the men and women who serve so loyally in
our Armed Forces deserve the highest accolades that this Nation can pay you.
As you have in the past, I know that each and every one of you will continue to
272
