[195]
April 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
Ravine and trying to successfully negotiate the headwall. I suspect the sitzmarks
that I made 40 years ago are still there.
But let me say to all of you, it is a great honor to appear before this distin-
guished group of legislators from the State of New Hampshire, a deliberative
body that is known far and wide as one of the most highly representative, one
of the most highly regarded, one of the most highly effective, and one of the
most highly paid [Laughter] Obviously, it has the great respect and admira-
tion of all of its constituents. Your selflessness and dedication is both to be
commended and applauded.
In fact, I had a short talk with one of your members as I was waiting to
come into the chamber, and she was telling me that you had received just
$200 a session. I said, “Two hundred dollars a session?" She said, "That's right.
Now you know why the State motto is 'Live Free or Die'." [Laughter]
I came here today just to say a few words about the past, to offer some
thoughts concerning the present, and of course, to talk about the future.
The people of New Hampshire are rich in historical heritage. It was at nearby
Newcastle that 400 of your ancestors stormed the British Fort William and
Mary and captured it with its military stores-4 months before the battles
of Lexington and Concord. The captured ammunition was used by New
Hampshire men who fought at Bunker Hill.
It was New Hampshire that drafted in January 1776, the first constitution
proclaimed in the colonies and passed the declaration of independence 3 weeks
before such action by the Continental Congress.
It was at Bennington that General John Stark led New Hampshire's troops
against the British with these very famous words, and I quote: "There are your
enemies, the Redcoats and the Tories. We must beat them or tonight Molly
Stark sleeps a widow."
Molly Stark never became a widow. Bennington was an early colonial vic-
tory. But John Stark would have fought to the last man, the last rifle, the last
round of ammunition if necessary.
I say in all sincerity, let us remember the lesson of General Stark and the men
of New Hampshire who fought for us then and make sure that this Nation's
defenses are never permitted to deteriorate to the point where an American
must ever be called upon to fight without the best weapons and without ample
ammunition and without the full determination of our Government and our
people to achieve final victory once committed.
I like your nickname: the Granite State. It shows the kind of strength of
512
