[91]
February 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
over the future of bipartisianship in foreign policy. He preferred to call it at that
time, “nonpartisanship."
Although more seriously ill than those of us who were his friends knew,
Senator Vandenberg saw his job as unfinished unless the Republican Congress
at that time and President Truman could fashion a decent peace to prevent
world war III. While working for world peace with President Truman and Sec-
retary of State Byrnes, the Senator flatly refused to make any speeches on a
partisan basis, because it would tend to destroy a united American foreign
policy.
In 1950, Senator Vandenberg emphasized the need, as he put it, under our
indispensable two-party system, to unite our official voice at the water's edge so
that America speaks with maximum authority against those who would divide
and conquer us and the free world. Senator Vandenberg said, and again I quote:
It does not involve the remotest surrender of free debate in determining our
position. On the contrary, frank cooperation and free debate are indispensable to
ultimate unity.
When one party controls the Congress, as did the Republican 80th Con-
gress and the other party controls the White House, as President Truman's
party did, there must be cooperation or, as Senator Vandenberg said, and I
quote: “America would be devoid of any foreign policy at all."
In February 1951, Senator Vandenberg differed with Senator Kenneth
Wherry—as I am sure Jack Javits would recall-who was then a very powerful
Nebraska Republican, whose resolution at the time, the major business of the
Senate, would have tied the hands of President Truman in foreign policy.
The President was seeking to add American Army divisions to an intregated—
I told my wife, Betty, that I knew this speech backwards, and I am proving it—
[laughter]-to an integrated North Atlantic military force commanded by
General Eisenhower. While respecting Senator Wherry's sincerity, Senator
Vandenberg was convinced the restrictive resolution would undermine the
President's constitutional authority as President of the United States.
So, it was in February of 1951, that Senator Vandenberg said of President
Truman, and I quote: "He is the only President we shall have and this is the
only Congress we shall have during the next two critical years; the quicker we
reach a working relationship so that we can have a united policy, the safer
our country will be."
Today I find myself in President Truman's job. I look to the new Congress
and to the critical years ahead. And I have to deal, of course, with the economic
crisis in the United States and other industrialized democracies. I am, of course,
250
