[72]
February 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
a final decision by myself. But we are not in the position where I can give you a
categorical answer at this point.
THE NATION'S ECONOMY
[12.] Q. Mr. President, I would like to return, if I could, please, to your
answer to a question which was asked a little earlier, in which you expressed
optimism that the economy would improve next year over its present situation
and that that would help your chances for reelection.
By your own statistics, sir, unemployment will be 7.9 percent next year, and
that is higher than it is now. The gross national product will drop, I believe,
3.3 percent now, which would be a bigger drop than last year, and we will
continue to have double-digit inflation.
With that grim economic outlook, sir, on what do you base your hope for
reelection, inasmuch as your own statistics make the outlook worse next year
than it presently is?
The President. Let's trace the history of inflation. From December 1973 to
December 1974, the cost of living went up 12.2 percent. From December 1974
to December 1975, we expect the cost of living to go up 9 percent. Between
December of '75 to December of 1976, we expect the cost of living to go up 7 per-
cent, so that is a very significant improvement, and it is not double-digit inflation.
It is almost cutting in half the inflation that we had from December '73 to
December '74. From the point of view of unemployment, it is true that we
expect, in 1975, inflation to average over, I think it is, 8.4 or 8.5 percent.
We do expect, however, by the second and third quarter of 1975 to have a
switch that will be on the plus side. It will be a switch that will probably mean
a 5-percent increase in the GNP. It will undoubtedly mean an increase of about
2 million in those employed.
So, the trend will be good, with higher employment and improvement in the
gross national product and a slight downtrend in unemployment figures. They
will get better the further we go into 1976, so I am not as pessimistic as you
appear to be, and I am not as pessimistic when you look at the trends, not the
averages, as some of the computer readouts tend to lead you to believe.
ECONOMIC RECOVERY AND PUBLIC CONFIDENCE
[13.] Q. Mr. President, Peter Bannon, WAGA Television, Atlanta. Sir, we
are told the confidence of the businessman and the consumer is essential to
economic recovery. Two questions, sir.
First, your estimation of this confidence, and second, is there a possibility that
190
