[88]
February 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
assure that Federal support does not dominate public broadcasting and to en-
courage continued non-Federal contributions, the Federal funds would be pro-
vided on a matching basis—with one Federal dollar for every $2.50 in non-Fed-
eral revenues up to the annual ceiling.
Since enactment of the Public Broadcasting Act of 1967, the Federal Gov-
ernment has supported the growth and development of noncommercial educa-
tional radio and television through annual appropriations. During this time,
public broadcasting has developed and matured into a far-reaching, effective
medium for bringing high quality educational and cultural programing to mil-
lions of Americans.
A recurring question in public broadcasting has been how to reconcile Govern-
ment funding with the possibility of Government control. On the one hand, if
Federal funds are used to support public broadcasting, the Government must be
able to evaluate how the funds are spent. To do otherwise would be irresponsible.
On the other hand, strict accountability by public broadcasting to the Govern-
ment can lead to Government direction of programing, which is contrary to
the principles of free expression on which our Nation was founded. It is this
issue alone which requires that the Congress consider a 5-year appropriation for
public broadcasting.
This bill is a constructive approach to the sensitive relationship between Fed-
eral funding and freedom of expression. It would eliminate the scrutiny of
programing that could be associated with the normal budgetary and appropria-
tions processes of the Government. At the same time, it would still permit
periodic review of public broadcasting by the Congress. I believe that it will
assure the independence of noncommercial radio and television programing for
our Nation, and long-term Federal funding will add stability to the financing
of public broadcasting which may enhance the quality of its programing. I urge
the Congress to enact it promptly.
89
Statement on a Bill Prohibiting Changes in the Food Stamp
Program. February 13, 1975
I AM announcing today that I will allow to become law without my signature
H.R. 1589, which prohibits for a full year basic reforms of the food stamp pro-
gram through administrative action. The Congress passed this bill by large
236
