[197]
April 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
Our environment includes every variety of climate, soil, and resources. The
American historical experience has been brief compared to many, many other
nations. We are the New World, but we are the world's oldest republic.
The most distinguished characteristic of our American way is our individ-
ualism. It is reflected in our frontier spirit, our private enterprise, and our ability
to organize and to produce. Our ability to adopt new ideas and to adapt them
to practical purposes is also strikingly American.
But now we ask ourselves, how did we come to be where we are tonight?
The answer is found in the history of the American experience. It teaches us
that the American experience has been more of reason than revolution, more
of principles than passions, and more of hope than hostility or despair.
But our history is also one of paradox. It has shown us that reason is not with-
out its moments of rebellion, that principles are not without passion, and hope
is not without its hours of discouragement and dismay.
It is well to recall this evening that America was born of both promise and
protest—the promise of religious and civil liberties, and protest for representa-
tion and against repression.
Some of our dreams have at times turned to disappointment and disillusion-
ment, but adversity has also driven Americans to greater heights. George Wash-
ington marched from the anguish of Valley Forge to the acclaim of final victory.
Reason and hope were the twin lanterns of Washington's life. They enabled
him to prevail over the day-to-day doubts and defeats. They have been the lamps
that have lighted the road of America toward its ultimate goals—dignity and
self-fulfillment and, yes, pride in country.
Abraham Lincoln was a man of reason and a man of hope. He acknowledged
the grave flaw of our first 87 years-slavery.
Over 110 years ago, the American Civil War ended with our Republic bat-
tered and divided. Many people talked more of survival than of union. One-
half of the Nation was on its knees in ruin. Nearly 2 million had been killed
and wounded. The war had uprooted the lives and fortunes of millions more.
Its end was marked by more tears than cheers, but it was also the birth of a new
nation freeing itself from human slavery.
Just before the war ended, on March 4, 1865, President Abraham Lincoln
stood on the East Portico of the Capitol in Washington and delivered his second
inaugural address. He extended the hand of friendship and unity when he said,
"With malice toward none, with charity for all, with firmness in the right, as
God gives us to see the right, let us strive on to finish the work we are in, to
bind up the Nation's wounds.”
526
