[245]
May 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
more so that I may add my personal thanks and congratulations in addition to
the cash awards available to participants.
I strongly urge each of you to seek economies and other improvements
within the Government while providing high quality services to the public.
By working together, I am confident that Federal spending can be reduced and
products and services improved.
GERALD R. FORD
246
Statement on Terminating the Eligibility Period for Vietnam Era
Veterans Benefits.
May 7, 1975
TWO YEARS have passed since the last American troops left Vietnam. Shortly
after our withdrawal, draft inductions were terminated. We established an all-
volunteer armed force with the highest pay in history. For the first time, the
Nation's youth could look to the military for jobs fully competitive with civilian
job alternatives.
America is no longer at war. But peacetime military volunteers have remained
fully eligible for all the wartime veterans benefits designed to reward those who
entered service during the period of actual hostilities in Vietnam.
The time has now come to terminate wartime benefits which apply to the
new peacetime volunteers. This is consistent with action taken by earlier Presi-
dents in ending wartime veterans benefits after World War II and the Korean
conflict.
Today, therefore, I have issued a proclamation [4373] terminating on May 7,
1975, the eligibility period for those Vietnam war benefits that the President
is empowered by law to end. At the same time, I am submitting appropriate
legislation to the Congress requesting the termination of the eligibility period
for G.I. bill education and training benefits-an action that is solely the preroga-
tive of the Congress.
These actions primarily concern future peacetime volunteers who are neither
disabled nor die in service. I want to emphasize that the termination actions
will in no manner impair the eligibility for full wartime benefits of the more
than 7 million Vietnam era veterans already discharged, or those presently
serving in our Armed Forces.
Future veterans disabled in service will continue to receive Veterans Admin-
istration compensation and other service-connected benefits on an absolute par
654
