March 17
[138]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Since I do not have the authority to undertake any such military obligation—
we have no U.S. military forces in South Vietnam—I think it is a hypothetical
question, which really I cannot answer.
FEDERAL FARM ASSISTANCE
[3.] Q. Mr. President, in view of your commitments for Food for Peace pro-
grams and your national interest in slowing down increase of food prices,
what kinds of farm support legislation would you support?
The President. I believe the current farm legislation is good legislation. I
helped, when I was in the Congress, to obtain its enactment. It has resulted in
freeing the Federal Government from trying to run agriculture in the United
States. It has resulted in the greatest production of food and fiber in the United
States.
It seems to me that this law which was passed several years ago is good legisla-
tion. It has supplied our needs. It has made it possible for the United States to
contribute very significantly in the Food for Peace effort around the world.
Therefore, I think it is wise, under these circumstances, for us to keep this
law and not tinker with it at the present time.
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
[4.] Q. Mr. President, Clark Clifford said today that he has already been
questioned by the Rockefeller Commission about a possible CIA assassination
plot. Since you created the Commission, I wonder if you think this is a proper
area for the Commission to get into?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Cormier [Frank Cormier, Associated Press], let me say
at the outset that this Administration does not condone, under any circum-
stances, any assassination attempts. We in this Administration will not partici-
pate under any circumstances in activities of that sort. Now, I have watched
with interest and personal attention the stories and some allegations to the effect
that assassinations were discussed and potentially undertaken.
I have asked members of my staff to analyze the best way in which this serious
problem can be handled. I did discuss it with the Vice President last week. And
I expect within the next several days that I will decide the best course of action
for the Rockefeller Commission or any executive branch investigation of such
allegations.
Q. I gather, sir, then that you think it should be gone into at least semi-
publicly?
363
