[174]
April 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
The productivity partnership you have formed with American business,
labor, and government has proven what can be done when all segments of our
American system work together toward common objectives. Over the past
7 years—and I can recall with some accuracy the work that was begun and the
work that has been achieved—you have developed the skill, the know-how, and
the commitment necessary to help those least likely to succeed under normal
and previous circumstances.
I think you are fortunate. Your objective is a very simple one: to place vet-
erans, the handicapped, and the disadvantaged people in private sector jobs
where they have the greatest opportunity to do for themselves, with your help,
to enlarge their arena, to enlarge their opportunities-private sector jobs that
will be their first step up the ladder of dignity and prosperity.
Specifically, we are taking the lead in finding jobs for veterans, and we have
literally hundreds of thousands of them as a matter of fact, more than 650,000
to date.
And you also conduct an enormously successful summer jobs campaign for
needy youngsters. I think these two alliance programs are extremely important.
I can't emphasize it sufficiently. We cannot and we must not forget the veterans
of the Vietnam war, nor can we ignore America's youngsters today.
I understand that you have achieved all this with only 35 professional staff
members paid by Federal funds. That is an awful lot of results with a minimum
of Federal participation.
All of the thousands of other people who made this program work were on
free loan from the private sector, which has been an invaluable contribution to
the betterment of America. And may I thank those in the private sector who
have made these people available to supplement the minimum contribution
made by the Federal Government. It really is a tribute to the free enterprise
system and the people who are deeply involved in it.
I am particularly pleased to see your current slogan, "Help America Work."
That is really the goal of our country today, and it has been in the past, and I
suspect it will be so in the future. I am deeply appreciative of what each of you
has contributed toward making that slogan a reality.
Today you are faced with a reward that so often goes with a job well done.
I ask you to do more, and I am confident that you will.
As representatives of the American business system, our economy, our gov-
ernment, and our people need your efforts more than ever before. I am sure
you have heard that on many, many occasions in your local communities, in
your States, and here now. But I say it with deep conviction; it is true.
452
