[59]
January 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
of whether increased Federal spending with its associated inflationary effects
and implied longer-term commitments-is warranted for these programs at
this time.
The White House,
January 30, 1975.
GERALD R. FORD
NOTE: The attachments detailing the rescissions and deferrals are printed in the Federal Register of
February 6, 1975 (40 FR 5631).
60
Letter to the Speaker of the House and the President of the Senate
Transmitting Proposed Energy Legislation. January 30, 1975
IN MY State of the Union address earlier this month, I outlined the dimen-
sions of our interrelated economic and energy problems and proposed com-
prehensive and far-reaching measures for their solution.
The measures I described included both Executive and Congressional actions.
Because further delay is intolerable, I have already taken administrative action
to deal with our energy problems, including issuance of a proclamation to
impose increased fees on imported oil. The Secretary of the Treasury has already
presented my detailed energy tax proposals to the House Ways and Means
Committee.
I am enclosing a proposed omnibus energy bill—the Energy Independence
Act of 1975-which, along with the tax proposals already presented, will pro-
vide the combined authorities that are necessary if we are to deal seriously and
effectively with the Nation's pressing energy problems.
We have delayed too long in taking decisive actions to reduce our dependence
on foreign energy sources and to eliminate our vulnerability to energy disruptions
such as we experienced last winter—or worse.
In the near term, enactment of the proposed legislation along with certain
Administrative actions would reduce oil imports by one million barrels per
day by the end of this year, and two million barrels per day by the end of 1977.
Over the mid-term (1975-1985), enactment of the proposed legislation will
insure that domestic supplies of energy are substantially increased, that the
growth in energy demand is reduced substantially and that we develop effective
protection from future energy embargoes or energy emergencies. In the long
136
