May 18
[265]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
is one of the first people I turn to when I have tzores (troubles). And in the
last few weeks, have I had tzores. [Laughter]
Today, it gives me a great deal of personal pleasure to add my voice to yours
as we say to Hugh Scott on this very, very special occasion, mazel tov (good
luck).
I think we all recognize that we are blessed in countless ways in this great
country, not the least of which is the quality and the character of the men and
women who give life to America. The leadership of a great people in a democ-
racy makes special demands on a public official. He must have the desire to
know what is on the people's minds, the wisdom to know what is in their
hearts, and the courage to know what to do is right.
All of these qualities are possessed in abundance by the man you honor today.
I have known Hugh Scott for 27 years. I have valued, as I said earlier, his per-
sonal friendship. And I have admired his complete and total integrity. There
are very, very few public officials who have so successfully combined the serious
duties of statesmanship with the good humor and the good grace which are
Hugh Scott's trademarks.
You honor Hugh today for his staunch and steadfast support he has given
to the State of Israel since its creation 27 years ago. It's an honor he richly de-
serves, and I know that he cherishes it. The rest of the Nation continues to honor
him as a man of conviction with a talent for compromise; a man of experience
who looks into the future; a man of integrity with a little twinkle in his eye;
a man of intellect who can do battle with the best of them in the toughest
struggle in the Congress or in any other political arena.
This is the total man that I know as Hugh Scott, a man that the Common-
wealth of Pennsylvania dearly loves—the man today that you honor and pay
tribute to. The library center in Israel which you are dedicating to his name, and
that of his lovely wife Marian, is a fitting honor, signifying as it does the wealth
of knowledge which man has gathered through the ages and the use of that
knowledge in constructive and purposeful purposes.
Nothing could characterize better Hugh's own life, nor reflect more accurately
the philosophy of your movement. You are committed to preserving the deep
and very abiding faith of the Jewish tradition for young and succeeding gener-
ations. Your devotion has won the respect and the admiration and, I might say,
the appreciation of thousands in this country and around the world. One reason
is the leadership of Rabbi Schneerson, who is observing his 25th anniversary this
year as the head of this movement.
My wish for you tonight was best said by one of my predecessors in the
685
