April 24
[209]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
of all people wherever they might be in this globe in which we live. It will
enhance our own perception of ourselves and our pride in being an American.
We can, we can—and I say it with emphasis-write a new agenda for our future.
I am glad that Tulane University and other great American educational
institutions are reaching out to others in programs to work with developing
nations, and I look forward with confidence to your participation in every aspect
of America's future.
And I urge Americans of all ages to unite in this Bicentennial year, to take
responsibility for themselves as our ancestors did. Let us resolve tonight to redis-
cover the old virtues of confidence and self-reliance and capability that charac-
terized our forefathers two centuries ago. I pledge, as I know you do, each one
of us, to do our part.
Let the beacon light of the past shine forth from historic New Orleans and
from Tulane University and from every other corner of this land to illuminate a
boundless future for all Americans and a peace for all mankind.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:07 p.m. at the
Tulane University Fieldhouse. In his opening re-
marks, he referred to Herbert E. Longenecker, presi-
dent of Tulane University, and Grady Hurley, stu-
dent body president.
209
Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual Manpower
Report of the President. April 24, 1975
To the Congress of the United States:
I am sending to Congress the 13th annual Manpower Report of the President.
This report, as required by section 705(a) of The Comprehensive Employment
and Training Act of 1973, as amended, reviews many of the recent economic
developments impacting on employment and unemployment levels. Policies
addressed to the loss of income by many workers were the keystone to my pro-
posals of October, 1974. The Administration and the Congress agreed on several
components of such a policy which are now in operation.
For example, the Emergency Unemployment Compensation Act has made
supplementary unemployment compensation available to experienced workers
who have exhausted unemployment insurance benefits. The Emergency Jobs and
Unemployment Assistance Act has made special unemployment assistance avail-
able to many workers not covered by the unemployment insurance system. In
573
