[208]
April 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
Yet, the world economy has become interdependent. Not only food tech-
nology but money management, natural resources and energy, research and
development—all kinds of this group require an organized world society that
makes the maximum effective use of the world's resources.
I want to tell the world: Let's grow food together, but let's also learn more
about nutrition, about weather forecasting, about irrigation, about the many
other specialties involved in helping people to help themselves.
We must learn more about people, about the development of communities,
architecture, engineering, education, motivation, productivity, public health
and medicine, arts and sciences, political, legal, and social organization. All
of these specialities and many, many more are required if young people like
you are to help this Nation develop an agenda for our future—your future, our
country's future.
I challenge, for example, the medical students in this audience to put on their
agenda the achievement of a cure for cancer. I challenge the engineers in this
audience to devise new techniques for developing cheap, clean, and plentiful
energy, and as a byproduct, to control floods. I challenge the law students in
this audience to find ways to speed the administration of equal justice and make
good citizens out of convicted criminals. I challenge education, those of you
as education majors, to do real teaching for real life. I challenge the arts majors
in this audience to compose the great American symphony, to write the great
American novel, and to enrich and inspire our daily lives.
America's leadership is essential. America's resources are vast. America's op-
portunities are unprecedented.
As we strive together to prefect a new agenda, I put high on the list of im-
portant points the maintenance of alliances and partnerships with other people
and other nations. These do provide a basis of shared values, even as we stand
up with determination for what we believe. This, of course, requires a continu-
ing commitment to peace and a determination to use our good offices wherever
possible to promote better relations between nations of this world.
The new agenda, that which is developed by you and by us, must place a
high priority on the need to stop the spread of nuclear weapons and to work for
the mutual reduction in strategic arms and control of other weapons. And I
must say, parenthetically, the successful negotiations at Vladivostok, in my opin-
ion, are just a beginning.
Your generation of Americans is uniquely endowed by history to give new
meaning to the pride and spirit of America. The magnetism of an American
society, confident of its own strength, will attract the good will and the esteem
572
