January 22
[39]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
is beyond our control. Instead, I will discuss where we are headed, because there,
individually and collectively, we have a real choice.
To use an economic term, I believe that there are several vital trend lines
running through the American Government and the American economy that
are headed very definitely in the wrong direction. And the time to redirect them
is right now. That is what I meant when I referred to the new directions in the
economy, a series of critical, long-range changes that can put our domestic house
in order and prepare us adequately for the challenges of the future.
Tonight, I will address myself specifically to three of the main areas where
the trends, in my judgment, need to be redirected: Federal spending, defense
policy, and profits and investment. All three happen to be very closely related.
All three-and the way we approach them-will vitally affect the quality of life
and government in America in the years ahead.
Foremost among these is Federal spending. More than a generation ago, a
trend was set in motion by politicians and pundits who began to advocate
massive Federal spending as a sure and certain way to social progress. This
massive spending took the form of income redistribution: redistribution of
programs such as food stamps, social security, Federal retirement benefits, and
so forth, programs under which a qualified citizen is automatically entitled to
specified benefits.
These programs, sometimes known as transfer payments, will total $138
billion in fiscal year 1975—that is this current fiscal year—and will constitute
44 percent of our 1975 fiscal year expenditures. In terms adjusted for inflation,
these payments have been growing at an annual rate of 9 percent for the past
20 years.
In 1955, and even in 1965, these programs were still only a very modest part
of our total Federal budget, but even small numbers become large after com-
pounding 20 years of 9 percent per year.
The continuation of these programs at anywhere near this rate of growth,
which is more than twice that of the gross national product, in my judgment, is
very ominous. In fact, even if other sectors of the Federal budget and State and
local expenditures grow modestly in real terms, this trend will mean that within
the next two decades government expenditures at all levels could eat up more
than half of our gross national product. They already account for close to
one-third.
I ask you to reflect for just a moment, think of what this would mean to the
average American. If government were to take more than half the gross na-
77
