[316]
June 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
have read the summary from the Rockefeller Commission concerning political
assassinations. I have read other material collected by the executive branch of
the Government, going back to late 1959 and running up through 1967 or '68.
I have read that myself, and under no circumstances do I want to sit in 1975
passing judgment on decisions made by honorable people under unusual cir-
cumstances. I think historians will make those judgments better than anybody
in 1975, including myself. So it is my feeling that I, the Members of Congress,
and others ought to reserve judgment. And that's why I caution the House and
Senate committees to use utmost prudence in how they handle the material
I'm giving them.
Q. When you say, sir, that you don't want to sit in judgment on decisions
made by others some 15 years ago, are you suggesting that there were decisions
made by the Presidents in that time?
The President. No, quite the contrary. I am not passing judgment on
whether they were right or wrong. I simply am saying that for us, 15 to 20
years later, to put ourselves in the position of people who had the responsi-
bility in the highest echelons of our Government-we shouldn't be Monday
morning quarterbacks, if I could invent a cliche. I think it's better to let history
tell the story rather than contemporaries.
Q. Mr. President, in the view of what some people have called the post-
Watergate morality, do you believe that the CIA's credibility can be restored
until and unless the story of the allegations of political assassination are dis-
closed fully to the public?
THE PRESIDENT. Of course I do. I believe that the credibility of the CIA can
be and will be restored by the report of the Rockefeller Commission and the
recommendations of the several Congressional committees.
I believe that there can be internal improvement in the CIA. I think there
can be legislative recommendations that I hope the Congress will enact, and the
net result will be that we will have a strong, effective, and proper Central
Intelligence Agency.
I have complete faith that we can do the job, that we will do it, and that we
will have a CIA that will do the job for us.
EUROPE
[5.] Q. I wonder if I can change the subject to Europe and the future. There
are reports in Europe, sir, that both the United States and the Soviet Union
seem to be less and less interested in the security conference that is due up this
year. Could you tell me something about the future timetable, when that might
794
