May 20
[271]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
spirit of this unique observance of our national Bicentennial. And I am very
humble knowing that many Presidents of the United States have come to
Charlotte and to Mecklenburg County.
I congratulate the county and all of North Carolina on the Bicentennial
enthusiasm expressed here today. It is a magnificent turnout with the right
spirit and the right aim and objective, and I thank you on behalf of all of your
fellow Americans in the 49 other States.
As I look out at this tremendous crowd, I see this gathering as a symbol of
the pride of Americans in their community, in their State, and in their Nation.
In recent years, America has undergone change after change, some still taking
place with rapid and almost bewildering speed. But amidst all this change, our
most cherished values have remained as steadfast as when instituted by the
fathers of our country.
I refer to America's capacity for unity in diversity, for courage in the face of
challenge, for decency in the midst of dissension, for optimism in spite of
reverses, and for creativity in adapting to the rapidly changing world in which
we live today. Our destiny in this year of our Bicentennial is to emerge as an
even greater Republic in the days and months and years ahead-and we will.
When the United States celebrated its first 100 years in 1876, the South was
still recovering from the tragic War Between the States. This was America's
most terrible ordeal. Yet America and the South have risen again.
It has been my good fortune in my lifetime to spend a great deal of time in
North Carolina-during World War II, in law school, many visits here—one
of my sons attended one of your great educational institutions, Wake Forest.
And this wonderful personal experience of meeting so many and getting to
know so many North Carolinians proves to me that North Carolina is a show-
case of a State that reveres the values of the past while leading the way toward
a progressive future.
Tar Heel tenacity is the American tenacity. The Tar Heel pride is the Ameri-
can pride. And the Tar Heel moderation typifies America's new realism. And I
congratulate you in each and every case.
This State, and the rest of the South, knows firsthand the changes of which I
speak. And I am proud of the great breakthroughs in education and industry in
the South, a region today which numbers some 67 million people, nearly one-
third of our total population.
This is an area where family income has increased more in the last quarter
century than in any other part of the United States. Today, personal income is
rising more rapidly right here than in the rest of our great country. Southerners,
697
