[264]
May 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
[The President spoke at 3:40 p.m. in the Philadelphia Civic Center Auditorium. Follow-
ing his address, he proceeded to the Exhibition Hall at the Civic Center to speak to an
overflow crowd at 4:15 p.m. as follows:]
President Meyerson, distinguished parents, friends—well, just nice people:
It is great to be here. I was thrilled by the opportunity to participate in this
wonderful occasion to honor the graduates who have earned their degrees at
the University of Pennsylvania.
I was saying to the president, it just makes one feel good to come to a great
university campus and to see the enthusiasm, the good will that is so healthy
and fine for America as we face some of the problems between now and our
next 100 years.
But the thing that is wonderful, as I look at it—we have some difficulties,
but the spirit of America is strong and healthy, it is visionary, it is generous, it
is human, and this is the way it was 200 years ago and for our country's life
for 200 years.
So, what they gave us we can build on, and that should be our mission for
those yet unborn.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: Prior to his address, the President received
an honorary doctor of laws degree from Martin
Meyerson, president of the University of Pennsyl-
vania.
Earlier in the day, the President attended a lunch-
eon for faculty members and honorary degree recipi-
ents at the University of Pennsylvania Museum.
265
Remarks at a Reception in Philadelphia Honoring Senator
Hugh Scott. May 18, 1975
Mr. Segal, Senator Scott, and lovely wife Marian, distinguished guests, ladies
and gentlemen:
I am really honored and privileged to be here with the American Friends
of Lubavitch. Shalom.
Obviously, it is a great privilege and pleasure for me to be here today to
join with all of you in honoring my very, very good friend, Hugh Scott, a
colleague of mine in the Congress for many, many years.
I am deeply grateful for the many, many instances where Hugh has given
me good counsel and fine support, and there is no way that I can ever ade-
quately repay him for his friendship. I might even go so far as to say that Hugh
684
