January 23
[45]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
MR. CHANCELLOR. Could I phrase it this way, because I think that the growth
on your part, as we in the press have perceived it, has been considerable. For a
long while you represented Grand Rapids, Michigan, as you should have, but
suddenly, you have been put into another arena, and your Government is about
to borrow $28 billion in 6 months-
THE PRESIDENT. $80 billion in the next 18 months.
MR. CHANCELLOR. Well, we are dealing with these enormous figures now that
do not seem to me to square at all with the ideological and political outlook
that you have had for much of your life. Could you talk about that?
THE PRESIDENT. I think all of us, John, who work at a job and seek to broaden
one's self in the process of step-by-step movement in a career, have to understand
the much more complex problems that we face. As I moved from a freshman
Congressman in 1949 to a Republican leader in January of 1965, and as I moved
from being a new Republican leader in January of '65 to a Republican leader,
8, 9 years later—if you have the capability and work at it, you inevitably get a
broader look at life. And that gives you, I think, a better understanding, not
only of the complexities at home but the enormous difficulties and complexities
on a worldwide basis.
I would be ashamed of myself if I did not think, from January of 1949, when
I first took the oath of office in the House of Representatives, till now, I had not
learned a lot, profited by mistakes, analyzed what I had done, right or wrong,
and expanded my knowledge and understanding. It has been a great deal of
satisfaction to me that I have been able to meet those challenges.
MR. CHANCELLOR. And now you are here in the cockpit. I mean, you are really
on the spot as President now. Have you learned in your months in this office
and in this house—do we tend to put Presidents too much on pedestals? Do we
expect too much from the human beings who occupy this office?
THE PRESIDENT. An awful lot is expected, John. But I think a person who is
President of the United States should expect that kind of responsibility, and
he should act accordingly. To do otherwise, I think, would be just wrong.
I think a person who is President, either elected or, as I was, under the unusual
circumstances, has to feel that there is an enormous responsibility and that the
American people expect him to perform 150 percent of his capability, both as
to mental and time and judgment and everything else.
Mr. Brokaw. Mr. President, you said in an interview² recently that you
thought you would have a better grasp of what the Presidency is and what your
2
The interview, conducted by Washington Post reporters on January 8, 1975, is printed in the January 12
issue of the Post.
107
