[335]
June 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
life, a government turned into an instrument of philanthropic collectivism, a
legislative redistribution of wealth and income, and the prospect of productive
citizens required by law to support a growing number of nonproductive citizens.
If that day ever comes, the foundation of our free society will be gone. The
America you and I know, the America that you and I love will be no more.
I can assure you I will do, as President, everything to curtail such centraliza-
tion in Washington, as well as elsewhere, and such rigidity in government.
I will continue to use my veto power to stem the escalation of Federal pro-
grams and agencies.
A responsible society must do for certain individuals what they cannot
achieve alone. But that is a far cry from the runaway spending that confines
government to no boundary, that undermines individual initiative, that pe-
nalizes hard work and excellence, and that destroys the balance between the
private and public sector of American life.
It took Americans over 180 years to reach our $100 billion Federal budget.
Nine years later, in 1971, the budget rose to $200 billion. This year, it will go
far over $300 billion. And within just 2 more years, at the present rate of spend-
ing, the budget will exceed $400 billion.
From my travels around America, from my meetings with citizens from all
walks of life, I can say this with conviction: Americans have not arrived at a
popular consensus for collectivism.
We have held no referendum to repeal our economic freedom. Quite the
opposite is true. Americans are proud of our system and pleased with what it has
produced.
Yet, if we continue to bigger and bigger government, Washington will be-
come the big daddy of all citizens. If the power to tax goes unchecked, it will
inhibit capital formation for business and incentive for workers. And we can
say goodby to the free enterprise system that has given us so much.
I am extremely pleased to be here today, because you are the frontline in the
very crucial struggle to preserve the private sector. Actually, you are protecting
a society that still cherishes excellence and still values freedom.
You are painfully aware that a government big enough to give us everything
we want is a government big enough to take from us everything we have.
I do not accept a scenario of doom and defeat. We have just begun to fight
for a new balance between the public and private elements of our society.
It is the determined intention of this Administration to review every single
proposal for Government action—whether in taxation or regulations or in any
828
