January 27
[48]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
status of American miners And in doing so, it has helped to improve the well-
being of all American workers.
I welcome this opportunity to assure you that my Administration stands
firmly behind your continuing efforts to bring about even greater improvements
in the safety and welfare of miners.
As we reinforce our national effort to achieve an independent fuel supply to
heat our homes and run our industry, the coal your members mine will be more
important than ever.
Your union has my very best wishes on this proud milestone in the annals of
American labor history.
GERALD R. FORD
48
Letter to the Speaker of the House and the President of the
Senate Transmitting Proposed Legislation To Extend the
Voting Rights Act of 1965. January 27, 1975
ENCLOSED for your consideration and appropriate reference is proposed
legislation entitled the "Voting Rights Act Amendments of 1975.”
This proposal would extend for an additional five years the basic provisions
of the Voting Rights Act of 1965. These provisions, including the requirement
that certain States and political subdivisions submit to the United States District
Court for the District of Columbia or the Attorney General any changes in
voting laws, will be subject to expiration after August 6, 1975.
The proposal would also extend for an additional five years the provision
which suspends the use of literacy tests and other similar prerequisites for
voting in all states and subdivisions not subject to such suspension under section
4(a) of the 1965 Act.
The Voting Rights Act of 1965 has been an extremely effective statute. Since
its enactment, substantial progress has been made in safeguarding and further-
ing the right to vote. Nonetheless, our experience indicates the need to extend
once more the key sections of the Act.
Sincerely,
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters addressed
to the Honorable Carl Albert, Speaker of the House
of Representatives, and the Honorable Nelson A.
GERALD R. FORD
Rockefeller, President of the Senate. The text of the
draft legislation was included as part of the release.
113
