July 11
[395]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
First, adequate energy is essential as a key to economic growth. We must start
now to assure sufficient energy to support economic growth for the 1980's.
Second, accelerating construction in this vitally needed industry—one of our
largest of capital-using industry-means jobs in the immediate future, and we
want meaningful jobs in the private sector in preference to those jobs that are
made by government action. The former are far more important for the well-
being of the worker and for our society as a whole.
One of the answers to our increased capital needs is a greater involvement of
America's middle-income group in savings and investment. I look not only to
mid-America for progress but also to middle-Americans.
There are two other areas in our long-range plan for full economic recovery
and future growth. We must reform the Government's regulatory processes
which threaten to choke the life of our private sector.
If I might, let me make two points. Everybody in Washington who has a
reasonably objective view believes that we have to get the regulatory commis-
sions to do something affirmative in this area. And we took the initiative and we
had 24 Members of the House and Senate-12 Democrats, 12 Republicans—
down to make sure that the Congress was working with us and we were work-
ing with them in trying to get some initiative from the regulatory agencies to
do something about their responsibilities.
And then several days ago, I had a meeting with the Chairmen and all of the
commission members of the 15, or thereabouts, regulatory commissions to make
sure that they knew that although they are "independent," they have a re-
sponsibility to the Congress, to the President, but more importantly to the
American people, and they better get moving in correcting the time lag, the
inefficiencies, and the other things that make the American people so unhappy
with them. I think we are going to make some headway.
And then I will add this: I made a speech a month or so ago to, I think, the
Chamber of Commerce or one of the organizations such as the Chamber, and I
said that Washington was overwhelmed with paperwork. And I cited that there
were 5,125, as I recollect, forms that were distributed by various agencies of the
Federal Government, and this was just too much for society to bear. And that
is true. But I also told my staff that a year later there better be less rather than
more. [Laughter] There better be about 500 less or we haven't done our job.
But there is another area which I think needs your attention and
my
attention
and the attention of the Congress, and I speak now about a long-range com-
mitment to energy independence. We have had Government redtape involved
965
