February 3
[63]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
lable that they will continue whether we like it or not. I firmly reject that
view. They are controllable if the Congress and the President join together to
hold down excessive spending. This budget is carefully designed to bring some
of these so-called uncontrollables back into line. I ask the Congress to work
with me to achieve that result.
Even with the steps I have proposed to return fiscal integrity, this budget
continues the steady and sharp annual increase in Government payments to
individuals—to those Americans who need help most from their Government.
These payments will increase by $15 billion in fiscal year 1976 over 1975, from
$137 billion to $152 billion. These payments include increased amounts for
social security, welfare, unemployment compensation, and retirement payments.
Such payments to individuals have increased steadily as a percentage of the
total budget until they now account for more than 40 percent of Government
spending.
Despite the huge deficit that we project, the budget being submitted today
is a compassionate one. It has muscle as well. It has discipline and honest self-
denial. It is a start in a new direction along the permanent road of fiscal integrity
which Americans must achieve for the long-term economic good of our country.
I am pleased that Roy Ash and some of his staff from the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget could be here today, because Roy is shortly returning to pri-
vate life. Like the good soldier that he is, Roy stayed on to finish the job that he
began in putting this budget together. He stuck to it until the last comma and
the final period were in place. Roy may be one of the most unappreciated men
in Washington—but not by me. I will miss his tough instincts and sound
counsel.
Jim Lynn will be taking over a tight ship from Roy, and I look to him to
enhance further the capability of solid management so necessary to that office.
At times like this, a simple “thanks” may sound inadequate. But the dic-
tionary defines the term as an expression of gratitude and appreciation. And
that is what this Administration—and this President-owes to Roy Ash.
Roy, I hate to see you go, but I must warn you: I have your unlisted telephone
number in Los Angeles. [Laughter]
So, with those observations and comments, I will sign the two budget docu-
ments that go to the Congress. I can't help but ask the question, Roy: Why
didn't we send one up there with the same red color that we have on the other
one?
[At this point, the President signed a copy of the message for each Chamber of the
Congress.]
145
