[122]
March 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
degree, and in 1975, from some sources, I am getting my third degree—and it
is still in economics. [Laughter]
But now as then, I look to the future with confidence. Those of us who went
to the University of Michigan during the thirties don't have to be reminded of
just how hard those times were. But what years haven't been hard? And what
times haven't been a challenge to those who lived in them? And what is wrong
with hard times and a challenge? I think it has a way of making people a little
stronger and a little better.
And frankly, I have always been grateful, despite whatever hardships I and
others served under, for my years at the University of Michigan. They were
darn good years, years that provided me with the necessary building blocks
and the blueprints to fashion a life from, years that gave me so many, many
true friends to experience a life with.
And a rare night like this allows all of us to look back with affection and, at
times, with amusement. But our sights should always be set on tomorrow and
the many tomorrows that follow.
I know what my views are and my hopes and expectations are. You know, I
tend to follow the sentiments expressed in one of our dearly loved college
songs-the one that says, "I want to go back to Michigan." And I do. But with
your kind permission, I would like to do it in 1981. [Laughter]
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:40 p.m. in the
International Ballroom at the Washington Hilton
Hotel. In his remarks, he referred to Representa-
tive Marvin L. Esch and Senator Robert
P. Griffin of Michigan; Robben W. Fleming, presi-
123
dent of the University of Michigan; Charles Wixom,
president of the University of Michigan Club; Dr.
Albert C. Kerlikowski, former director of the Uni-
versity Hospital; and Harry Kipke, former football
coach at the university.
Statement on the Terrorist Attack in Tel Aviv, Israel.
March 6, 1975
THE ACT of terrorism which occurred last night at Tel Aviv resulting in the
tragic loss of innocent lives should be strongly deplored by everyone. Outrages
of this nature can only damage the cause in whose name they are perpetrated.
I extend my deepest sympathy, and that of the American people, to the
families of those persons who have been killed as a result of this senseless act.
NOTE: On the evening of March 5, 1975, eight
Palestinian guerrillas seized the Savoy Hotel, holding
guests hostage until Israeli Army troops advanced
on the hotel on the morning of March 6. Three
Israeli soldiers, three civilians, and seven guerrillas
were killed during the ensuing battle.
318
