[158]
March 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
job in working with the Congress to get the legislation through. But now you
will undertake—as a businessman, as a top Government official, and as a repre-
sentative of our country-a very momentous mission.
I congratulate you on the job you have done, and I wish you well in your new
responsibilities. We are mighty proud to have you in this great and important
responsibility.
So, Judge Chapman, will you kindly proceed and see that Fred gets properly
sworn in?
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:53 a.m. in the
Cabinet Room at the White House. Judge Robert F.
Chapman of the United States District Court for the
District of South Carolina administered the oath of
office.
Mr. Dent's response to the President's remarks is
printed in the Weekly Compilation of Presidential
Documents (vol. 11, p. 307).
159
Memorandum on the U.S. Savings Bonds Program.
March 27, 1975
Memorandum for the Heads of Departments and Agencies
I have reappointed the Honorable Earl L. Butz, Secretary of Agriculture, as
Chairman of the Interdepartmental Savings Bonds Committee. He has made a
great contribution to this program for the past two years. The Committee needs
his leadership and experience.
The U.S. Savings Bonds program is, as you know, a key tool in the manage-
ment of the public debt. Today, Americans own a record $64½ billion worth of
these securities, which represent nearly one-fourth of the publicly-held portion
and constitute the most stable element in the entire debt structure.
The program has also made a major contribution to the financial security of
individuals, providing a safe and convenient method of accumulating reserves
for the future.
Because the purchase of U.S. Savings Bonds supports the Government's policies
and programs in these two important ways, it is fitting that employees of the
Federal Government take the initiative in the purchase of Savings Bonds
through the Payroll Savings Plan and set an example for all Americans in
securing their country's future.
The heads of departments and agencies, who make up the Interdepartmental
Savings Bonds Committee, have the special responsibility to offer and promote
402
