April 10
[179]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Cyprus negotiations. I deeply share the concern of many citizens for the im-
mense human suffering on Cyprus. I sympathize with the new democratic
government in Greece. We are continuing our earnest efforts to find equitable
solutions to the problems which exist between Greece and Turkey. But the
result of the Congressional action has been to block progress towards reconcili-
ation, thereby prolonging the suffering on Cyprus, to complicate our ability
to promote successful negotiations, to increase the danger of a broader conflict.
Our longstanding relationship with Turkey is not simply a favor to Turkey;
it is a clear and essential mutual interest. Turkey lies on the rim of the Soviet
Union and at the gates of the Middle East. It is vital to the security of the
eastern Mediterranean, the southern flank of Western Europe, and the collec-
tive security of the Western alliance. Our U.S. military bases in Turkey are
as critical to our own security as they are to the defense of NATO.
I therefore call upon the Congress to lift the American arms embargo against
our Turkish ally by passing the bipartisan Mansfield-Scott bill now before the
Senate. Only this will enable us to work with Greece and Turkey to resolve
the differences between our allies. I accept and indeed welcome the bill's
requirement for monthly reports to the Congress on progress toward a Cyprus
settlement, but unless this is done with dispatch, forces may be set in motion
within and between the two nations which could not be reversed.
At the same time, in order to strengthen the democratic government of
Greece and to reaffirm our traditional ties with the people of Greece, we are
actively discussing a program of economic and military assistance with them.
We will shortly be submitting specific requests to the Congress in this regard.
A vital element of our foreign policy is our relationship with the developing
countries in Africa, Asia, and Latin America. These countries must know
that America is a true, that America is a concerned friend, reliable both in
word and deed.
As evidence of this friendship, I urge the Congress to reconsider one provi-
sion of the 1974 trade act which has had an unfortunate and unintended
impact on our relations with Latin America, where we have such a long tie
of friendship and cooperation. Under this legislation, all members of OPEC
were excluded from our generalized system of trade preferences. This, unfor-
tunately, punished two South American friends, Ecuador and Venezuela, as
well as other OPEC nations, such as Nigeria and Indonesia, none of which
participated in last year's oil embargo. This exclusion has seriously complicated
our new dialog with our friends in this hemisphere. I therefore endorse the
amendments which have been introduced in the Congress to provide execu-
467
