April 7
[171]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
sometime in 1973. I think he probably knows more about me than anybody
in this room, including Betty, so I am glad you didn't ask him to speak.
[Laughter]
First, I want to congratulate the members of the National Association of
Broadcasters on your courage in holding your convention here in Las Vegas.
However, since I am concerned with the economic well-being of all of our
citizens, I have to offer you this advice: There are some games you just don't
play without a helmet. [Laughter]
As a matter of fact, you could be the first broadcasters in history to go from
a station break to a station broke. [Laughter]
I don't mind telling you I have always had a little concern when I appear in
Las Vegas, especially with my economic advisers. I would really hate for
people to think it is our way of making up the deficit. [Laughter]
This convention represents an opportunity for your industry to share prob-
lems, technological innovation, and trends in the broadcasting business. Your
industry has a unique challenge because of its power and its great influence
throughout our Nation. But, like all other businesses, you are concerned about
the stability of our economy, which influences your ability to survive and to
serve your customers.
This audience represents the spectrum of an American business, from the
small radio or television stations serving a few thousand to the larger stations
serving literally millions. But whether the budget you work with is large or
small, you understand the Nation's economic difficulties very well.
The first part of my economic recovery recommendations last January, a
prompt tax cut, is now law. The second and equally important part was the
restraint of Federal spending by cutting back some $17 billion in existing
programs and by a 1-year moratorium on all new spending, except in the
critical fields of energy and emergency needs.
I signed the tax cut bill because it was urgently needed to stimulate the
economy. I was deeply concerned about the quality of the legislation ap-
proved, because it cost some $7 billion more than was requested. What that
means is $7 billion less in tax revenues, and that amount is added inevitably
to the Federal deficit.
Our continuing concern is the overstimulation of the economy through ex-
cessive Government spending. The Administration's projected deficit was $52
billion in a 12-month period or $1 billion per week of deficit. With the tax cut,
the deficit would be closer to $60 billion if the Congress authorized no new
spending programs.
441
