April 19
[198]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
summon higher, greaer values as we proceed. These higher values are found
in the principles of this Republic, forged by our forefathers in the Declaration
of Independence.
Thomas Jefferson wrote of change in the light of American principles, and
he said, “Nothing, then, is unchangeable but the inherent and inalienable rights
of man." Jefferson accepted change in the ordinary course of human events,
but he rejected any fundamental change in the principles of our Republic, the
inalienable rights of man.
Often, change is healthy for a people and a nation. That is why America has
always been a land of new horizons and new hopes. Free choice, the consent of
the governed, represents the American philosophy of change.
Life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness are sacred rights, not to be given
or not to be taken by shifting winds or changing moods. It is important to
recall these truths, because the men and women of America must renew that
faith, their courage, and their confidence. Our belief, our commitment to
human rights, to human liberties, must also represent belief and commitment
to ourselves.
It is a time to place the hand of healing on the heart of America—not division
and not blame. When all is said and done, the finest tribute that may ever be
paid this Nation and this people is that we provided a home for freedom.
Freedom was nourished in American soil because the principles of the
Declaration of Independence flourished in our land. These principles, when
enunciated 200 years ago, were a dream, not a reality. Today, they are real.
Equality has matured in America. Our inalienable rights have become even
more sacred. There is no government in our land without consent of the
governed.
Many other lands have freely accepted the principles of liberty and freedom in
the Declaration of Independence and fashioned their own independent republics.
It is these principles, freely taken and freely shared, that have revolutionized the
world. The volley fired here at Concord two centuries ago, "the shot heard
round the world," still echoes today on this anniversary.
One hundred years from now, a new generation of Americans will come here
to rededicate this Nation and renew the spirit of our people in the principles that
inspire us on this occasion. Let it be said that those of us who came to Concord
today reaffirmed these final words of the Declaration of Independence: “We
mutually pledge to each other our lives, our fortunes and our sacred honor."
Thank you very, very much.
531
