[108]
February 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
learn to conserve. But it is literally true—little, if any, legislative action had taken
place. So, I decided that as long as Congress had given me this authority, I was
going to use it to make them come up with an answer.
I had submitted an answer, or at least one I thought was a good one, and what
I found was that we literally had 535 answers in the Congress, the House and
the Senate, but no one answer or no consolidated answer. And frankly, my old
friends, when they saw that the pressure was on and they had to come up with
something, they went to work.
Now, I have got some good news and some bad news for you. The bad news
is, I picked up the evening paper from Washington, as I left the National Capital
today, and my good friends across the aisle, according to this headline, says
"House Democrats Plan 16 Cents More on Gas Tax." Now, that is bad news,
because I do not think that is the right answer.
But the good news is that they are focusing in on the problem, that they finally
have decided in this—Democratic as well as Republican—that there is a problem,
there must be some answers, and that they have to come up with either their
solution or take mine and modify it or change it. The good news—and it is good
news-we can argue about the differences, our solution or theirs, but the main
point is that Congress now is beginning to realize they have to have an answer.
What they are really doing is studying this, and if they do, I think they, as well
as myself, will come pretty close to the same answer. That is important for the
national security of the United States.
We have had a little problem. They have passed legislation to take away this
authority that I have been using to get some action. Unfortunately, I am going
to have to veto it. And I hope we can get enough votes to sustain it, so that then
we can join hands and work together in trying to find an answer. And I suspect
it will be sustained. I am optimistic. And then we can sit down across the table,
both the House and the Senate, Democrats and Republicans, and have an energy
plan that will solve our present as well as future difficulties.
Let me just say, the practical energy program that I have submitted—if I
could run down a few of the points—it will give us energy independence by
1985. It will increase domestic energy production, conserve energy, and it will
prepare us for any future embargoes.
In brief, I think we have got to allow competitive pricing of new natural gas
supplies. We must increase production of oil and gas from our Outer Continen-
tal Shelf. We must double production of domestic coal supplies. We must amend
the Clean Air Act to achieve a better balance between our energy and environ-
mental requirements.
284
