[226]
May 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
226
Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual Report on
the Trade Agreements Program. May 1, 1975
To the Congress of the United States:
I am pleased to transmit herewith to the Congress the Nineteenth Annual
Report of the President of the United States on the Trade Agreements Program.
This report covers calendar year 1974.
The world economy in 1974 was characterized by deepening stresses and
strains caused by persistent inflation, a downturn in economic activity, structural
dislocations in the wake of the oil crises, high rates of unemployment, and wide-
spread uncertainty as to the future. In such circumstances, most governments
faced strong pressures to adopt unilateral restrictions on imports, to promote their
export earnings and to secure access to essential supplies.
Fortunately, most governments have not forgotten the costly lessons of the
nationalistic, go-it-alone policies and ensuing trade wars of the 1930s. With
economic wisdom and political courage, the world's industrialized countries
have in large part held the line against the proponents of short-sighted solutions
involving unilateral measures restricting and distorting trade and competitive
currency devaluations. Moreover, recognizing the need for positive, cooperative
approaches, most of the world's trading nations joined in technical preparatory
work for far-reaching multilateral negotiations to reduce trade barriers, as had
been agreed to by over 100 countries in September, 1973. By the end of 1974, this
preparatory groundwork was largely completed.
Passage of the Trade Act of 1974 last December opened the way for the
multilateral trade talks to move into the negotiating stage in February, 1975.
Countries accounting for most of the world's trade are participating in nego-
tiations which will include all types of tariff and nontariff barriers that affect
agricultural as well as industrial trade. Both developed and developing coun-
tries expect major benefits from the results.
When these negotiations were launched in 1973 at a Ministerial-level meeting
in Tokyo, the objective was to achieve the “expansion and even greater liber-
alization of world trade and improvement in the standard of living and welfare
of the people of the world." This commitment has been reaffirmed in recent
meetings of the Trade Negotiations Committee in Geneva. The spirit of co-
operation offers hope for broad and significant results.
The mandate given the President in the new trade legislation will enable
612
