[186]
April 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
generations of leaders known to history-the soldiers, the statesmen we know as
the founders of this great country.
But even more remarkable than the genius of the founders themselves is the
fact that generation after generation of Americans have continued to build on
the foundation that they left us. Fortunately for us and for the world, we have
never lost sight of their great dream.
Other countries, of course, have had brilliant leaders. But no other country
can point to two centuries dedicated to expanding and perfecting a continuing
revolution in a free society. This is what makes America unique in the history
of nations. And that is why, although our experience in Indochina has been one
of heroic sacrifices and great disappointments, I am convinced that we can and
will emerge from this ordeal stronger and wiser as a nation, just as we have from
others even greater in the past.
This brings me to the soul searching, the inventory of opportunities, of chal-
lenges before us today. How do we stand today, and are we still on the right
course? It would be impossible for me in the time here to go over every single
issue-political, military, diplomatic, and economic-that this question raises.
So, let me focus, if I might, on just one of them—our national defense. I ask
this question: Are we strong enough today? And just as important, will we
be strong enough tomorrow?
According to a recent poll, some Americans have questions about our world
position and the cost of maintaining that position. The poll indicated that
Americans want the United States, and I quote, "to play an active role in the
world.” Yet, at the same time, they believe the defense budget should be
reduced. Some want it emasculated.
Americans still believe that being strong militarily is important. They want,
in the words of the poll's report, "a powerful and militarily secure standing for
the United States in the world.” What they don't like is the price tag that comes
with it.
This is a basic dilemma. When a nation wants to achieve contradictory goals,
such as military security and less defense spending, sooner or later citizens
must make a choice.
It is becoming fashionable in some quarters to charge that military force is
outmoded in the modern world. It is argued, for example, that modern weap-
onry, especially nuclear armaments, are too destructive to use and that, there-
fore, they won't ever be used.
Further, it is argued, when we have applied military power, it has not pro-
duced the results we wanted, such as in Southeast Asia.
482
