April 18
[193]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
sumer, I am requesting that the Congress postpone further action on S. 200,
which would create a new Federal Agency for Consumer Advocacy.
I do not believe that we need yet another Federal bureaucracy in Washington,
with its attendant costs of $60 million for the first three years and hundreds of
additional Federal employees, in order to achieve better consumer representa-
tion and protection in Government. At a time when we are trying to cut down
on both the size and the cost of Government, it would be unsound to add
another layer of bureaucracy instead of improving the underlying structure.
It is my conviction that the best way to protect the consumer is to improve
the existing institutions of Government, not to add more Government.
I look forward to working with you, the members of your Committee, and
the Congress in advancing the interests of all consumers within our existing de-
partments and agencies.
Sincerely,
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters addressed
to the Honorable Abraham A. Ribicoff, chairman,
Senate Government Operations Committee; the
Honorable Jack Brooks, chairman, House Govern-
GERALD R. FORD
ment Operations Committee; and the Honorable
Harley O. Staggers, chairman, House Interstate and
Foreign Commerce Committee.
193
Remarks in Manchester, New Hampshire.
April 18, 1975
Mayor Stanton, Governor Thomson, former Senator Norris Cotton, distin-
guished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
I do want to thank you from the very bottom of my heart for the wonderful
reception. I am deeply grateful, and I thank you very, very much.
New Hampshire, as we know, is not the largest State. It doesn't have the
most people of all of our 50 States. But New Hampshire does have a first-class
record at the very top in history and tradition in America, and I compliment
you and congratulate you for that wonderful record.
New Hampshire is also a State that has many firsts, and one that is probably
the most important—as I was looking over the history-is that New Hampshire
took action on a declaration of independence even before the Continental Con-
gress did. And for that, I congratulate your forefathers.
May I add that over the years, the State of New Hampshire has had a won-
derful record of outstanding statesmen. Of course, Daniel Webster had no peer.
509
