January 23
[45]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
admitted some of the charges that have been made against them. How far did
they get off the reservation, Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT. I did read the report that was submitted to me by Bill Colby,
the head of CIA. And after reading it, I determined that rather than myself
making a judgment as to whether they were violating their legislative charter
or whether there was any guilt on the part of any individual, the present Di-
rector or any of his predecessors, that the proper thing for me to do was to turn
the investigation over to a very reputable group of gentlemen who would look
into the facts, take testimony, and make a report, number one, as to the charges;
number two, make recommendations to me as to any disciplinary action or
changes within the present personnel; and to make recommendations as to
whether the charter of CIA ought to be revised.
I asked the Vice President, Nelson Rockefeller, to head up this group of
seven people, three Democrats, three Republicans, men of outstanding expe-
rience and, I think, excellent judgment, and they are in the process now.
It would be premature for me, John, to pass judgment on the degree of vio-
lation of the charter. There have been admissions that there were some indiscre-
tions or potentially illegal actions. But for me to say on this program that
Mr. A did something that was illegal or the group did something totally
wrong, I think it is better for me to wait and see what this Commission reports
to me.
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
[5.] MR. BROKAW. Mr. President, another agency, the FBI, has recently been
involved in a controversy about keeping track of Americans as well, keeping
files on Members of Congress, among others. Clearing away everything else,
do you think that there is any reason for those files to be retained?
THE PRESIDENT. Tom, I think you have to look at what the responsibility is
of the FBI.
Number one, the FBI under no circumstances should do anything-they
should not spy on Members of Congress. I do not think they ought to spy on
law-abiding American citizens. But there are certain areas where the FBI has
a legal responsibility.
The FBI has the responsibility to check on individuals who are charged with
a crime—any American citizen, including a Member of Congress. The FBI,
if they are seeking to employ somebody or if somebody applies for a job, the
FBI has an obligation to check on that person's record. And some Members
of Congress at the present time served in the FBI at various times prior to being
103
