April 19
[200]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
little competition on the links. [Laughter] I intend to make an honest effort
to see if our friendship can't be broadened by such an experience.
So, I say to you, Mr. President, and to your lovely wife and your son and
your colleagues here this evening, let me propose a toast to you, to the Republic
of Zambia, and to the continuing excellent relations between our two countries.
To you, Mr. President, and to your Republic and to your wonderful people.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:10 p.m. in the
State Dining Room at the White House. President
Kaunda responded as follows:
Mr. President, Mrs. Ford, brothers and sisters:
I first want to express my deep appreciation and
gratitude for inviting me to visit Washington, D.C.
I also thank you, the Government, and the peo-
ple of the United States for their warm welcome
and the kind hospitality given to my wife and I
and the entire Zambian delegation.
Mr. President, we are happy to be in Washington,
D.C. It is a very brief visit, but since we come for
specific objectives, it is not the duration that matters,
but the results.
So far, we have done a lot. We find we have a lot
in common on vital issues affecting mankind. Our
discussions have been characterized by a spirit of
frankness and cordiality.
This spirit, coupled by the definition of areas of
urgent action, should move the U.S. and Africa
closer towards the attainment of our
objectives.
We come, Mr. President, to America with a clear
purpose. We simply want to be understood. We seek
American understanding of Africa's objectives and
America's fullest support in the attainment of these
objectives.
The relations between Zambia and the United
States cause me no concern, because they are
cordial, although there is room for improvement
through more sound cooperation.
What gives Zambia and Africa great cause for
concern is, Mr. President, America's policy towards
Africa-or is it the lack of it, which, of course, can
mean the same thing.
I have not worked at the U.N., but I have been
told that at the U.N. sometimes there are tricks in
which an abstention in a vote can be a vote for or
against.
A no-policy position may not be a neutral posi-
tion indicative of a passive posture, but a de-
liberate act of policy to support the status quo or to
influence events in one direction or the other at a
particular time.
We have, in recent years, been most anxious, Mr.
President, about the nature and degree of the
United States participation in building conditions
for genuine peace, based on human equality, human
dignity, freedom and justice for all-for all, par-
ticularly in southern Africa.
You will forgive us, Mr. President, for our candor
if we reaffirmed on this occasion our dismay at the
fact that America has not fulfilled our expectations.
Our dismay arises from a number of factors.
We are agreed that peace is central, that peace is
central to all human endeavors. Our struggle for
independence was designed to build peace, and
thank God, our people have enjoyed internal peace.
We are agreed, Mr. President, that we must help
strengthen peace wherever it is threatened. There
has been no peace in southern Africa for a very
long time, a very long time indeed, even if there
was no war as such.
The absence of war does not necessarily mean
peace. Peace, as you know, Mr. President, dear
brothers and sisters, is something much deeper,
much deeper than that.
The threat of escalation of violence is now real.
It is our duty to avoid such an escalation. We want
to build peace in the place of violence, racial har-
mony in place of disharmony, prosperity in place of
economic stagnation, security in place of insecurity
now dogging every family every day.
Mr. President, to build genuine peace in southern
Africa, we must recognize with honesty the root
causes of the existing conflict.
First, colonialism in Rhodesia and Namibia-the
existence of a rebel regime in Rhodesia has since
compounded that problem. Second, apartheid and
racial domination in South Africa.
Over the last few years, a number of catalytic
factors have given strength to these forces of evil.
External economic and strategic interests have
flourished in colonial and apartheid regimes.
Realism and moral conscience dictate that those who
believe in peace must join hands in promoting con-
ditions for peace. We cannot declare our commit-
ment to peace and yet strengthen forces which
stand in the way of the attainment of that peace.
The era of colonialism has ended. Apartheid can-
not endure the test of time. Our obligation is that
these evil systems end peacefully-peacefully.
To achieve our aim, we need America's total com-
mitment, total commitment to action consistent with
that aim. So far, American policy, let alone action,
has been low-keyed. This has given psychological
comfort to the forces of evil.
535
