February 4
[70]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
by introducing new production techniques and by investing in energy-conserv-
ing capital equipment. These efforts must be stimulated and maintained until
our consumption patterns and our industrial structure adjust to the new relation-
ship between the costs of energy, labor, and capital.
This process of adjustment has been slowed because U.S. energy costs have
not been allowed to increase at an appropriate rate. Prices of about two-thirds
of our domestic crude oil are still being held at less than half the cost of imported
oil, and natural gas prices are being held at even lower levels. Such artificially
low prices encourage the wasteful use of energy and inhibit future production.
If there is no change in our pricing policy for domestic energy and in our con-
sumption habits, by 1985 one-half of our oil will have to be imported, much of it
from unreliable sources. Since our economy depends so heavily on energy, it is
imperative that we make ourselves less vulnerable to supply cutoffs and the
monopolistic pricing of some foreign oil producers.
The need for reliable energy supplies for our economy is the foundation of
my proposed energy program. The principal purpose is to permit and encourage
our economy to adjust its consumption of energy to the new realities of the
market place during the last part of the twentieth century. The reduction in
our dependence on unreliable sources of oil will require Government action,
but even in this vital area the role of Government in economic life should be
limited to those functions that it can perform better than the private sector.
There are two courses open to us in resolving our energy problem: the first is
administered rationing and allocation; the second is use of the price mechanism.
An energy rationing program might be acceptable for a brief period, but an
effective program will require us to hold down consumption for an extended
period. A rationing program for a period of 5 years or more would be both
intolerable and ineffective. The costs in slower decision making alone would be
enormous. Rationing would mean that every new company would have to peti-
tion the Government for a license to purchase or sell fuel. It would mean that any
new plant expansion or any new industrial process would require approval. It
would mean similar restrictions on homebuilders, who already find it impossible
in much of the Nation to obtain natural gas hookups. After 5 or 10 years such a
rigid program would surely sap the vitality of the American economy by
substituting bureaucratic decisions for those of the market place. It would be
impossible to devise a fair long-term rationing system. The only practical and
effective way to achieve energy independence, therefore, is by allowing prices
of oil and gas to move higher-high enough to discourage consumption and
encourage the exploration and development of new energy sources.
175
