March 7
[128]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
the 93d Congress, and I am looking to you for vigorous implementation. It
provides $112 billion over the next 6 years for mass transit. This means that we
will be spending in the next fiscal year almost 70 percent more Federal funds
for mass transit than we spent in the last fiscal year.
We must take steps, of course, to save the Nation's railroads. The United
States desperately needs its railroads to transport the vast quantity of goods in
a fuel-efficient manner necessary for our economy to survive and to prosper.
Railroads are an important mover of energy, especially coal, and we will need
to double our coal production by 1985. Railroads obviously will play a major role
in helping us to obtain our energy objectives.
Working with you, Mr. Secretary, I plan to submit to the Congress over the
next several weeks very important legislation in the transportation area. I will
propose a new highway bill, which will set forth a revised highway program
through the year 1980. Also, the Federal airport program expires on June 30.
I will propose major revision in the airport and aviation programs.
Another important legislative initiative which the Administration will be
submitting to the Congress concerns reforms of the economic regulation of
transportation by the independent Federal agencies. Regulatory reform is
critical if we are to reduce the rate of inflation which inflicts the Nation. Nothing
is worse than inflation caused by Government requirements.
Mr. Secretary, I'm very pleased to welcome you into one of the toughest
Cabinet posts in our Government and to wish you success as we work together.
Now, Mr. Secretary, if you still want the job-[laughter]—I will ask Mr.
Justice Marshall to please administer the oath.
[Following his swearing in by Thurgood Marshall, Associate Justice of the Supreme Court,
Secretary Coleman responded to the President's remarks. The President then resumed
speaking.]
We will leave here now, but in the State Dining Room there will be some
refreshments. And I do invite all of you to join Bill and Mrs. Coleman and the
other guests in the State Dining Room.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:10 p.m. in the
East Room at the White House. Secretary Cole-
man's response to the President's remarks is printed
in the Weekly Compilation of Presidential Docu-
ments (vol. 11, p. 252).
335
