January 3
[4]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
another, and to advance the concept of an integrated health service delivery
team. By separating out nursing from other health personnel categories, this
bill would perpetuate what has in the past been a fragmented approach.
The enrolled bill would also extend various special nursing student assist-
ance provisions of current law. Nursing students are overwhelmingly under-
graduates, and as such should be—and are entitled to the same types of student
assistance available generally under the Office of Education's programs for
post-secondary education. These include, in particular, guaranteed loans and
basic educational opportunity grants for financially hard-pressed students. Cate-
gorical nursing student assistance activities are not appropriate and should be
phased out, as the Administration has proposed.
The White House,
4
January 2, 1975.
GERALD R. FORD
Memorandum of Disapproval of a Milk Price Support Bill.
January 3, 1975
I AM withholding my approval from S. 4206, entitled "an act to provide
price support for milk at not less than 85 per centum of the parity price there-
fore, and for other purposes."
This bill would require an immediate increase of $1.12 per hundredweight
in the support price for milk, to a record high of $7.69. Thereafter, through
March 31, 1976, further upward adjustments would be required every three
months as necessary to reflect changes in the parity index and parity price for
milk.
Such large increases in milk prices to producers would be highly inflationary
to consumers and unnecessary. The initial increase alone would raise fluid milk
prices to consumers by about 6 cents per half gallon of milk and require in-
creasing CCC's [Commodity Credit Corporation] purchase price for cheese,
and subsequently market prices, 11 or 12 cents per pound. Correspondingly
large increases in the support purchase prices for butter and nonfat dry milk
also would be required to carry out the higher support price for milk.
These significantly higher prices would be inconsistent with the Adminis-
tration's continued and concerted efforts to combat inflation and its serious
5
