[108]
February 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
resources. Our potential for solar energy is unbelievable. Large deposits of
untapped oil shale and geothermal energy lie beneath our Western States.
We have an obligation, as I see it, to find ways to use these resources eco-
nomically. At the same time we must use them in a manner that is environ-
mentally acceptable, and we must keep our options open. Our capabilities must
be broad and flexible so that we can develop varied sources which are not mainly
dependent on only one or two. That is why we have launched a comprehensive
Federal energy effort that will cooperate closely with American industry.
Let me for a few moments discuss with you some of the very exciting, exotic
energy alternatives—and this seems quite appropriate in a State like Florida
where you seem to have a great vision of the future. Since conventional oil and
gas comprise less than 10 percent of our proven domestic reserves in fossil
energy, a major thrust in our research effort aims to develop new technologies
for efficient, clean use of our coal and oil shale resources to provide energy for
utilities, industries, as well as homes.
To this end, the Federal Government has already undertaken a very broad
program to develop coal gasification, liquification, and advanced technologies
for utilizing oil shale. Before the end of this year, for example, four pilot plants
will be in operation to convert coal to gas for home use. Another four plants to
convert coal to oil for commercial and industrial use are under construction or
will be in operation.
If our Nation is to achieve energy independence, nuclear power must be
developed to its fullest potential consistent with public health and public safety.
In addition to getting current generation nuclear powerplants on line much
more rapidly, we must develop a new generation of nuclear reactors.
This includes the so-called fast-breeder reactor. Only by this means can we
capture the full potential of our nuclear resources. Future reactors of this kind
will be capable of fuel efficiencies some 60 times greater—some 60 times greater
than the present nuclear light water reactors.
Uranium supplies will thus be extended for literally centuries rather than just
a few decades. Obviously, it is a big and it is a very difficult job, but we must do
it, ensuring that the safety of the public is not endangered and that our environ-
ment is adequately protected.
Our 1976 budget also provides for a very vigorous, long-term program to de-
velop controlled nuclear fusion. There are serious scientific and serious technical
problems to overcome before we achieve practical fusion. However, this effort
holds our future hope for vast amounts of clean energy. Fusion along with solar
286
