[129]
March 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
129
Remarks at a Dinner Meeting of the Republican National
Leadership Conference.
March 7, 1975
Thank you very much, Mary Louise. Distinguished members of the Cabinet,
my good friends from the House of Representatives and the Senate, all of you
wonderful Republicans-2,751 of you:
I thank you for the wonderful welcome. I do want to thank you, Mary Louise,
and Dick as well, for the superb job that has been done by the national commit-
tee in making this tremendous evening and this wonderful conference possible.
I think we all owe to her and to Dick a great debt of gratitude.
You know, we have had a very good day today. I haven't followed by the
minute what you have been doing, but I must say that we had one of the finest,
nicest, best swearing ins of a Cabinet officer today with the swearing in of Bill
Coleman as the Secretary of Transportation.
To come from that wonderful occasion at the White House to a meeting of
this kind tonight really gives me a rejuvenation and extra faith that we are the
party that can do the best job in leading this Nation.
I couldn't help but notice that Mary Louise has been spending more and more
of her time talking to large groups like this. Then again, her counterpart, Bob
Strauss, the Democratic national chairman, has been spending more and more
of his time talking to large groups—not audiences, but candidates for President.
[Laughter]
Tonight, before I go any further, let me thank you all for your wonderful
kindness, your enthusiasm, and your continuing support. And may I say with
deep regret, unfortunately, Betty couldn't be here tonight. She wanted to be
here; she is here in spirit; but she has got one of these very uncomfortable pinched
nerves in her neck, and every once in a while, when she wants to do the things
she wants to do most, it always acts up. So, she is here in spirit. She asked me
to say hello to you and thank you for your wonderful support.
But you know, I can't say strongly enough how good it feels to be among
so many good, veto-proof friends. [Laughter]
The time you are spending in Washington is very important for me, for you,
but most importantly, for our country. The strength, the enthusiasm, the know-
how that you have, that you have shown here by your participation in this
conference, is proof that creative, active, winning Republicans will never be an
endangered species.
336
