[219]
April 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
There is nothing more important—once you get past the people who hold
positions of responsibility in a State government-than the individual who is
in charge, or elected official in the party organization. In George McMath ¹ you
have an outstanding individual. And I compliment you for selecting him, and
I thank him for the efforts that he is making. George, we are most appreciative.
Well, I could speak with great fondness and gratitude on behalf of the Re-
publican Members of the House of Representatives. They are the kind of peo-
ple I like, and they are the kind of people that do a great job for you and an
especially fine job for the country. So, you should be appreciative of their efforts.
I only add one little postscript. We lost several very outstanding ones. I hope
that we can recapture and regain those seats that we lost in 1974.
That brings me to 1976. In 1974, we had double-digit inflation of about 12
to 13 percent. We had the prospects of serious unemployment; at least, the
problem was obvious to many, many people. We had absolutely the worst
political environment that I can recall in my 20-some years in active political
life, and for the Republican Party to do as well as we did under those circum-
stances was remarkable.
In 1976, we have a very unique opportunity to recapture, to regain the ground
we lost and even to do infinitely better. Let me tell you why. In contrast to 1974
when inflation was 12, 13 percent, the rate of inflation is going to be half as
much, if not better. We are making tremendous headway in this battle. We
aren't totally successful, but there is significant progress. We are going to come
out of this economic problem we are in, and I can assure you that by the end of
this calendar year and moving into 1976, the picture, economically, throughout
the country will be on the upswing.
The net result is our policies, the responsible policies of a Republican admin-
istration and those Republicans in the Congress will be salable to the American
people.
Let me add this, because it is equally important. We are going to have, in
1976, excellent results in the field of foreign policy. We have gone through some
disappointments, some sad and tragic events. There is no use talking about the
past in this regard. We must build for the future, to make certain and to make
positive that we build for peace with honor and respect and success in the
future, beginning tomorrow.
What I am trying to say is that the political environment will be good in
1976. I am looking forward to the campaign in 1976 because I think the policies
1 Chairman of the Virginia Republican Party.
596
