[270]
May 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
3. The Nation would be more dependent on foreign oil—when we are already
overly dependent and dangerously vulnerable.
4. Coal production would be unnecessarily reduced-when this vital domestic
energy resource is needed more than ever.
America is approaching a more serious domestic energy shortage, and we are
not facing up to it.
We can develop our energy sources while protecting our environment. But
this bill does not do that. I have supported responsible action to control surface
mining and to reclaim damaged land. I continue to support actions which strike
a proper balance between our energy and economic goals and important en-
vironmental objectives.
Unfortunately, H.R. 25 does not strike such a balance.
Since I submitted my comprehensive national energy program earlier this
year—a program which included a tough but balanced surface mining bill—
our energy situation has continued to deteriorate. With domestic energy pro-
duction continuing to drop, we are today more vulnerable to the disruption
of oil supplies than we were during the Mid-East oil embargo. We will be
even more vulnerable as our economy recovers and energy consumption in-
creases. This vulnerability places us in an untenable situation and could result
in new and serious economic problems.
Coupled with this steadily deteriorating situation is the fact that the Congress
has yet to act on a comprehensive energy program capable of achieving goals
on which we all agree. Several Congressional committees have worked hard
to develop solutions. Unfortunately, their proposals are inadequate to achieve
the energy objectives I have set.
As the one abundant energy source over which the United States has total
control, coal is critical to the achievement of American energy independence.
In the face of our deteriorating energy situation, we must not arbitrarily place
restrictions on the development of this energy resource.
It is with a deep sense of regret that I find it necessary to reject this legislation.
My Administration has worked hard with the Congress to try to develop an
acceptable surface mining bill and other energy programs which could, when
taken together, enable us to reduce energy imports and meet environmental
objectives. While the Congress accepted in H.R. 25 some of my proposals, it
rejected others necessary to reduce the adverse impact on coal production and
to clarify various provisions of the legislation to make it precise and more
workable.
The Department of the Interior and the Federal Energy Administration now
694
