[146]
March 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
tion, Marshall T. Mays. These meetings will focus on trade and other forms of
economic cooperation between Yugoslavia and the United States.
The two sides devoted particular attention to areas of continuing crisis such
as the Middle East and Cyprus. In setting forth their views concerning the paths
to be followed in attempting to resolve these and other outstanding world prob-
lems, the two sides emphasized the benefit of regular contacts and consultation
at all levels to heighten understanding and mutual respect for one another's
views and positions.
Reaffirming their mutual interest in the preservation and consolidation of
peace in Europe and the further advancement of constructive cooperation
among European states in a wide variety of fields, the two sides emphasized
their determination and mutual interest in the continued coordination of efforts
to attain acceptance of basic principles of inter-European cooperation and secu-
rity, and an early, successful conclusion of the Conference on Security and
Cooperation in Europe.
Both sides expressed continued determination to strive for effective disarma-
ment measures which would strengthen the peace and security of all peoples.
The two sides affirmed that solutions to the problems which presently face
mankind must be sought by peaceful means on the basis of respect for the prin-
ciples of the Charter of the United Nations and the sovereign equality of all
states irrespective of size or social, political and economic system. In this regard,
it was recognized that Yugoslavia's policy of non-alignment contributes actively
to greater understanding among peoples and the pursuit of peaceful resolution
of international problems and conflicts.
Economic problems currently facing the world were discussed in the context
of growing international interdependence. The two sides stressed the impor-
tance of finding solutions to such problems as energy and other raw materials,
food, population, the environment, and economic development. They agreed
that genuine peace and stability in the world depend on the achievement of
significant progress toward the resolution of these problems, and that such
progress can best be achieved by cooperative efforts and agreements which take
into account the rights and interests of all countries, and not by confrontation.
The two sides expressed satisfaction that continued progress has been regis-
tered in bilateral cooperation between the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugo-
slavia and the United States of America. They noted particularly the substantial
and continuing growth of trade between the two countries in recent years and
agreed to act to promote continued economic and financial cooperation, includ-
ing joint investments. Both sides also expressed a desire to maintain a high level
384
