February 25
[108]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
remainder of this calendar year, we would pay out a total of more than $2 billion
more for foreign oil.
Unfortunately, the Congress seems to be embarked on a massive gamble, a
risk of increasing this Nation's vulnerability to future embargoes, which we
cannot afford. I would much rather invest the $200 million, or $2 billion as the
case might be, in American jobs than send them abroad.
Nearly 6 weeks ago, I submitted to the Congress an action program. I made
detailed economic and energy proposals. But the Nation still waits for Congres-
sional action, even such action that would make Americans just 1 gallon less
dependent on imported oil, or put just $1 back into the citizen's pocket through
the tax rebates that I have proposed.
In the process of developing this plan, I was the beneficiary of what was called
"Project Independence." Here is a multi-page document, about 325 pages, the
result of the most exhaustive examination of the problems of energy ever made
in the history of the United States. Expert after expert worked literally months
putting this document together, and what it is, is an analysis of the problem
with one option after another for those who have to make decisions.
My advisers, the Secretary of the Interior Rog Morton and others, and myself
spent a good many hours studying, analyzing, making some rational decisions
on the basis of this factual information. I concede, right now, that most of the
problems we faced were not easy. They were not either black or white. Many of
them meshed. Many of them were very controversial. Many of them were mar-
ginal decisions. But we spent a great deal of time coming to some rational deci-
sions. And the net result was that, in late January, I submitted to the Congress
a bill which is about 167 pages. It includes the particular recommendations that
were made for affirmative action to solve the energy problem, to make us less
vulnerable to foreign oil imports, and to give us an opportunity to meet any
challenge so that we could stimulate production and conserve what we have.
Now, I have not been very popular in recent weeks with some of my old
friends in the Congress, because I used an administrative tool that they gave to
the President, before I became President, whereby I could impose, through a
declaration or proclamation, an import levy of $1 or $2 or $3 on every imported
barrel of oil. Now, this was an administrative action taken solely for the purpose
of forcing the Congress to act. And why did I do that?
Well, I have heard for the last 3 years in the Congress, one President after
another, one proponent after another tell the Congress and the American people
that we had an energy problem, we had to do something about it, we had to find
new sources, we had to stimulate alternative sources of energy, and we had to
283
