[196]
April 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
I think competition is the key to productivity and innovation. Even the busi-
nesses that enjoy a protective status under regulation are adversely affected.
Although it is difficult to come up with an exact pricetag on the cost of
unnecessary and ineffective government regulation, some estimates that I have
seen place the combined cost to consumers of government regulation and
restrictive practices in the private sector at more than the Federal Government
actually collects in personal income taxes each year—or something in the order
of $2,000 per family. Unbelievable! Even if the real costs are only a fraction of
this amount, this is an intolerable burden on our pocketbooks.
Transportation is an example of an industry where consumers are actually at
the mercy of outdated regulation. As a result, the industry has been hampered
and harmed.
I spent a couple of hours yesterday with people who were trying to find an
answer to the financial difficulties of the Rock Island Railroad. Better than 12
years ago, two railroads in the Far West wanted to merge with the Rock Island.
And after 12 long years, they finally got a decision from the ICC. In the mean-
time, the Rock Island has gone broke.
Well, that is a simple example, but now we are trying to find an answer. Of
course, you in New England are familiar with some of the problems in this area
here.
Well, the Interstate Commerce Commission actually was established in 1887
and had a good purpose: to protect the public from the monopoly of the railroads.
It produced massive construction (constriction) of rail transportation.
We know the country does have a basically ample railroad system, but the
problem is now to make it work for the benefit of the users and keep it healthy
so we don't have to move into the nationalization of this important asset in our
economic life.
Now, the defects of airline regulation by the Civil Aeronautics Board can be
seen very specifically in California and in Texas. Let me cite this example. The
CAB-regulated carriers-it does regulate carriers that compete with intrastate
carriers, which are not regulated by the CAB-the facts are that the fares of
nonregulated intrastate carriers are as much as 40-percent lower than those
controlled by the CAB. Something must be wrong.
Now, to deal with inefficient and inequitable regulation in the transportation
industry, I will send to the Congress a comprehensive program of regulatory
reform which will promote competition by allowing greater price flexibility,
greater freedom of entry, and by reducing the power of Government agencies to
grant antitrust immunity.
522
