[68]
February 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
squarely. You will find no attempt to evade the plain truth in either document.
The figures used are honest and conservative, and we hope to do better than
the forecasts.
Some of our current problems have been growing for years. I have asked the
Congress to join with me in establishing a new direction for our economy, not
in parceling out blame. I repeat the request, this time with an even greater
urgency. If we fail to act jointly, there will be blame enough for everyone among
us.
Thank all of you for the fine work that you did on the preparation of the
report. And I think we can promise everybody next year will be better, won't it?
[At this point, the President signed the report, which was to be transmitted to the Congress
on the following day.]
Well, thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:17 p.m. at a cere-
mony in the Cabinet Room at the White House
attended by members and staff of the Council of
Economic Advisers.
For the text of the Economic Report, see Item 70.
69
Remarks at the White House Conference on Domestic and
Economic Affairs in Atlanta, Georgia. February 3, 1975
Bill Baroody, Governor Busbee, Senator Talmadge, Mayor Jackson, distin-
guished Members of the House of Representatives, public officials, ladies and
gentlemen:
It is really a privilege and a pleasure to be in Atlanta, and I hope and trust
that this conference, this White House Conference, has been beneficial not only
to those of us in Government but to you in local government and those of you
in labor, management, and the professions.
Before I begin, I want Mayor Maynard Jackson to know that I have come to
your great city of Atlanta with both good news and bad news. The good news
is the entire world is talking about the "Big M's" stunning first round k.o. of
Muhammad Ali.ยน The bad news is Muhammad Ali wants a rematch. [Laughter]
No, I am only kidding, Mr. Mayor. I knew you could handle yourself when I
saw those trunks you were wearing. I figured anyone who goes around in pants
like that better know how to fight. [Laughter]
As I said at the outset, it is a real pleasure to attend this year's first White House
1 The President was referring to a mock boxing match between Mayor Jackson and world heavyweight
boxing champion Muhammad Ali held the previous week as part of Black Atlanta Week celebrations.
166
