March 17
[138]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
We are counseled to withdraw from the world and go it alone. I have heard
that song
before. I am here to say I am not going to dance to it. Nor do I believe
this generation of young Americans will desert their ideals for a better nation
and a better world.
You can and you will help to move America along in the right direction.
Hopefully, you can do a better job than the class of 1935, but while the classes
of 1975 and 1935 are still around, we have much to learn from each other.
We can renew the old American compact of respect for the conviction of
others and faith in the decency of others. We can work to banish war and want
wherever they exist. We can exalt the spirit of service and love that St. Patrick
exemplified in his day.
I am not alarmed when I hear warnings that the tide of history is running
against us. I do not believe it for a minute, because I know where the tide of
history really is-on this campus and thousands and thousands of others in
this great country and wherever young men and women are preparing them-
selves to serve God and their countries and to build a better world.
You are a part of the tide of this history, and you will make it run strong
and true. Of that, I am sure.
Thank you. And top o' the morning to you!
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:15 a.m. at the
University of Notre Dame Athletic and Convocation
Center. Prior to his remarks, he received an honorary
doctor of laws degree.
138
The President's News Conference of
March 17, 1975
THE PRESIDENT. Good afternoon. It has been a great and wonderful day here in
South Bend. I thank everybody for it. And I am looking forward to this news
conference.
Mr. Jack Colwell [South Bend Tribune].
NOTRE DAME PRESIDENT HESBURGH
[1.] Q. You and Father Hesburgh today had some very kind things to say
about one another, and it also gave you an opportunity to speak with him
privately. Do you have any plans for any additional appointments or duties for
Father Hesburgh in your Administration?
THE PRESIDENT. Father Hesburgh has done a superb job on the Clemency
361
