January 14
[27]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Nobody is going to pull us out of our troubles but ourselves—and by our own
bootstraps.
In 200 years as a nation, we have triumphed over external enemies and internal
conflicts, and each time we have emerged stronger than before. This has called
for determined leaders and dedicated people, and this call has never gone
unheeded.
In every crisis, the American people have closed ranks, rolled up their sleeves,
and rallied to do whatever had to be done.
I ask you and those who represent you in the Congress to work to turn our
economy around, declare our energy independence, and resolve to make our
free society again the wonder of the world.
The beginning of our Bicentennial is a good time to reaffirm our pride and
purpose as Americans who help themselves and help their neighbors no matter
how tough the task. For my part, I will do what I believe is right for all our
people—to do my best for America as long as I occupy this historic house.
We know what must be done. The time to act is now. We have our Nation
to preserve and our future to protect. Let us act together. May God bless our
endeavors.
Thank you, and good night.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9 p.m. from the Lincoln Library at the White House. The address was broad-
cast live on radio and television.
27
Remarks on the Anniversary of the Birth of
Martin Luther King, Jr. January 14, 1975
ON THE 46th anniversary of the birth of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., it is
appropriate to review the progress of this Nation in securing civil rights for all
our citizens. It is an impressive if not a perfect record.
Many of the social and political changes Dr. King envisaged as a civil rights
leader are now taken for granted. But progress is not counted by past success;
we must continually renew our commitment to the cause of justice and equality.
Dr. King was in the forefront in leading the way to passage of the Voting
Rights Act of 1965. I supported the original act and its extension in 1970. This
law has helped to open up our political processes to full citizen participation—
and we must safeguard these gains through another 5-year extension of the
statute.
35
