April 9
[177]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
section of America is represented by 2,000 of our finest young people, who in
the process of visiting the Nation's Capital will be exposed to opportunities
for your future careers.
As you move into that career, one that not only makes sense to you but money
for you, you will find new opportunities and new challenges confronting you.
With the war over and the draft ended, your duty now is to enlist in the
campaigns being currently waged against our domestic and international prob-
lems. One thing that I have found in my experience in government, which
goes back to January 1949, is that our government needs new ideas.
Those new ideas can come from any one or all of you. We need new con-
cepts that can be made available to us, whether we are in the executive branch
or in the legislative branch. We need new approaches. We can't use the same
old concepts day after day after day.
You have ideas of your own, and that is why you are here. You have inspira-
tion, and you have the dedication. And that is why you have joined others who
were here.
It is my judgment that ideas are the engines that make our free enterprise
system go, and let us hear from you the ideas that you have put together in
your own mind with the benefit of others.
I would like to make one observation, and I am not critical of anybody—
people believe it, but it is something that worries me—I sat in the House of
Representatives for 25 years, and I used to see program after program pre-
sented to the House that meant a bigger government, that meant more control
over people and over cities and over States.
I used to get very worried as I saw this proliferation of government, and I
thought to myself on many occasions that I wish that people would think in
this way, and let me paraphrase it, if I might: Just remember that a govern-
ment big enough to give us everything we want is a government big enough
to take from us everything we have.
As Explorers, each and every one of you in your, local community are
also leaders. Leaders in America, particularly among the young, are the greatest
resource that this Nation has.
You obviously represent the spirit, you obviously represent the will of
America's future. And although I am certain you have heard it said before,
may I, with your indulgence, say it again. You—and I mean exactly that—you
can make this country whatever you want it to be.
At this time, I want to personally welcome to the White House two other
457
