[212]
April 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
I can only say that we in government are deeply grateful and very appreciative
of what has been done, and I thank you for what I understand you are planning.
I don't want to get into any other subjects—I made three speeches in New
Orleans yesterday and got back about 1 a.m. But I do want you to know that
we are going to move forward, we are taking a fresh start, and we are going
to be successful both at home and abroad. With your help and the confidence
of the American people, we can look forward to brighter days and better days.
As I said at the outset, Betty and I would be delighted to have you join us
in the State Dining Room for some refreshments, and it would be my hope
that both of us would have an opportunity to meet most of you.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:21 p.m. in the East
Room at the White House. In his opening remarks,
he referred to Gibson McCabe, chairman of the
213
board, and Robert P. Keim, president, Advertising
Council, Inc.
Remarks at the Unveiling of the President's Portrait
at the National Republican Club of Capitol Hill.
April 24, 1975
Thank you, Mr. President. Members of the House and Senate, my dear friends
and those of Betty, members of the Capitol Hill Club, and guests:
It is a great privilege and pleasure for us to be here. And may I say to the
portrait painter, the artist, that I am very flattered. I think it is excellent. Ob-
viously, I like the pose. You know, as a fiscal conservative, I always enjoy seeing
a politician with his hand in his own pocket. [Laughter] But I do thank you,
Mr. Johnson, and I am very grateful.
Obviously, Harold, I am very, very pleased to see that the Capitol Hill Club
will have this portrait in a prominent place in a club that means a great deal
to me. I can recall when the Capitol Hill Club was in a very small, old building
where the new Library of Congress is now being constructed. I can recall very
vividly when it was over in the hotel for a good many years and was a wonderful
place where all of us could get together, have a good time, do things as fellow
Republicans.
I was also part of the group that helped to put this building and the one next
door together. And I recall with a great deal of satisfaction when we had a
groundbreaking and then when we had the dedication. I have come to this
building as well as the one next door on many, many occasions.
578
