[223]
April 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
in a piecemeal fashion, each committee acting on its own. As a result, no one in
Congress was responsible for assuring that we could afford everything that was
enacted.
Our economic circumstances cannot tolerate such a haphazard approach.
Therefore, I urge in the strongest possible terms that both Houses of Congress
adopt a spending ceiling resolution. The national interest requires that Congress
draw a firm spending and deficit line.
224
Letter to the Speaker of the House Urging Enactment of
Vietnam Humanitarian Assistance and Evacuation
Legislation. May 1, 1975
Dear Mr. Speaker:
[Dated April 30, 1975. Released May 1, 1975]
In view of the urgent need for funds to pay for humanitarian assistance and
transportation of refugees from South Vietnam, I request that the House of
Representatives act quickly to approve the Conference Report on H.R. 6096,
the Vietnam Humanitarian Assistance and Evacuation Act of 1975. In making
this request, I am aware that sections 4 through 9 of H.R. 6096 have been over-
taken by events and have no further utility. Nevertheless, the enactment of the
bill as recommended by the Conference Report is the most expeditious method
of obtaining funds which are now desperately needed for the care and trans-
portation of homeless refugees.
As I stated yesterday, the evacuation has been completed. The Congress may
be assured that I do not intend to send the armed forces of the United States
back into Vietnamese territory.
Approximately 70,000 evacuees are now located on various safe haven islands,
on U.S. Navy vessels and on civilian vessels. These individuals are being cared
for by agencies of the United States Government while being processed through
a system established to relocate them in the United States and in other countries.
Although the specific cost of activities related to the evacuation cannot be fixed
at this point, it is estimated that direct U.S. expenditures to care for and process
these evacuees, and contributions to international organizations and private vol-
untary agencies to assist in this effort, will exceed $400,000,000. Available funds
already appropriated to provide aid to Vietnam will be reprogrammed and
608
