June 6
[312]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
remain. These financial problems do not reflect the inability of oil-importing
nations as a group to obtain needed financing, because the investable surpluses
of the oil-exporting nations are available to them in the aggregate. Rather, the
problems arise from the possibility that despite satisfactory operation of the
system as a whole, an individual nation will not be able to obtain, on reasonable
terms, the external financing it needs to maintain appropriate levels of domestic
economic activity. This inability might also lead to imposition of inappro-
priately restrictive policies on international trade and capital movements. If
permitted to begin, recourse to such policies could spread quickly, severely dis-
rupting the world economy and threatening the cooperation of oil-importing
nations on energy matters and broader economic issues.
The private financial markets and other existing sources of financing are
expected to continue to perform well, and it is our hope that these potential
dangers will never materialize. However, this risk remains. It is common to
all countries, and it must be faced. The Support Fund is designed to encourage
cooperation among the major countries in energy and general economic policies,
and to protect against this common risk by assuring fund participants that
needed financing will be available on reasonable terms.
In essence, the Financial Support Fund represents an arrangement under
which all participants agree to join in assisting one of their members if an
extreme need develops. As such, the Financial Support Fund will serve as an
insurance mechanism or financial “safety net," backstopping and thus strength-
ening other sources of financing. Its objective is to provide assurance that
financing will be available in a situation of extraordinary need, rather than to
supplant other financing channels or to provide financing on generous terms.
Participants must make the fullest appropriate use of other sources before
turning to the Support Fund. Loans by the Support Fund will be made on
market-related terms and will require specific policy conditions in the energy
and general economic areas. Support Fund loans will thus contribute directly to
cooperative energy policy and to correction of the borrower's external financial
difficulties. A further provision, of major importance in such a mutual support
arrangement, requires that all risk involved in loans by the Support Fund will
be shared equitably by all participants on the basis of pre-determined quotas, as
will all rights and obligations of members with respect to the Fund. The terms
of the Financial Support Fund therefore assure it will not become a regular
operating part of the world's financial machinery or be used as a foreign aid
device.
The proposed United States quota in the Support Fund-which will deter-
783
