July 10
[393]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
been doing. And then I read this morning, and I thought I had to change my
remarks. [Laughter] So, instead of using any notes, I will just respond extem-
poraneously with some of the things I know you are interested in.
First, I am deeply grateful that your organization in its deliberations yester-
day made a decision to not relate your problems to the national defense needs
and requirements of our country as a whole.
I think there is enough money available for all of our essential programs to
be adequately funded. And I think it is important for us to have your support
in a completely strong, alert military organization, because if we don't have
that kind of strength for national security, many of the other things we try
to do cannot be sustained.
I spent 14 years of my 25 years in the Congress working on the defense
appropriation bill, so I know a little bit about it. We had Secretaries of Defense
come before that committee every year. We had all types of military personnel
coming up to justify the budget, and we in those years provided an adequate
military force to protect our national security. We didn't give them too much.
We gave them enough, and the net result was, our security during a very diffi-
cult period was fully adequate for the defense of this country.
And I can assure you that in the presentation of a military budget by this
Administration, the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, and the Marines will get
everything they need and not one penny more. But we do need that as insur-
ance for the maintenance of peace and the winning of any conflict, if we should
be involved in one.
I think records ought to show that some 7 or 8 years ago, out of our total
expenditures for the Federal Government, the Defense Department received
roughly 43 or 44 percent and that many of our other programs, primarily in
the programs to help people—and that is used in the broadest context—the per-
centage that came from the total expenditures of the Federal Government was
roughly 32 or 33 percent.
Now, we are spending a lot more money today, and out of the total pie, the
Defense Department gets about 30 percent and all of the other programs are
now getting over 40 percent. So, we not only have a bigger percentage going
to the nondefense areas but we have a bigger piece of pie from which to make
money available. And we will continue to make sure that everything we can
will be done in the areas in which you have a tremendous responsibility.
But at the same time, in dividing this Federal availability in the area of money,
we have to have an adequate amount for our national security. I think if we do
it right—and I think we will-the defense will be adequately funded, our peo-
955
