April 23
[208]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Just as Tulane has made a great transition from the past to the future, so has
New Orleans, the legendary city that has made such a unique contribution to
our great America. New Orleans is more, as I see it, than weathered bricks and
cast-iron balconies. It is a state of mind, a meltingpot that represents the very,
very best of America's evolution, an example of retention of a very special cul-
ture in a progressive environment of modern change.
On January 8, 1815, a monumental American victory was achieved here—the
Battle of New Orleans. Louisiana had been a State for less than 3 years, but out-
numbered Americans innovated, outnumbered Americans used the tactics of the
frontier to defeat a veteran British force trained in the strategy of the Napoleonic
wars.
We as a nation had suffered humiliation and a measure of defeat in the War
of 1812. Our National Capital in Washington had been captured and burned.
So, the illustrious victory in the Battle of New Orleans was a powerful restora-
tive to our national pride.
Yet, the victory at New Orleans actually took place 2 weeks after the signing
of the armistice in Europe. Thousands died although a peace had been nego-
tiated. The combatants had not gotten the word. Yet, the epic struggle never-
theless restored America's pride.
Today, America can regain the sense of pride that existed before Vietnam.
But it cannot be achieved by refighting a war that is finished as far as America
is concerned. As I see it, the time has come to look forward to an agenda for
the future, to unify, to bind up the Nation's wounds, and to restore its health
and its optimistic self-confidence.
In New Orleans, a great battle was fought after a war was over. In New Or-
leans tonight, we can begin a great national reconciliation. The first engage-
ment must be with the problems of today, but just as importantly, the problems
of the future. That is why I think it is so appropriate that I find myself tonight
at a university which addresses itself to preparing young people for the chal-
lenge of tomorrow.
I ask that we stop refighting the battles and the recriminations of the past. I
ask that we look now at what is right with America, at our possibilities and our
potentialities for change and growth and achievement and sharing. I ask that
we accept the responsibilities of leadership as a good neighbor to all peoples and
the enemy of none. I ask that we strive to become, in the finest American
tradition, something more tomorrow than we are today.
Instead of my addressing the image of America, I prefer to consider the reality
of America. It is true that we have launched our Bicentennial celebration with-
569
