March 19
[144]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
savings available to finance homebuilding. Nor have the efforts by Government
to provide subsidies to support more housing construction succeeded very well.
In fact, these programs requiring the Government to borrow in the capital
markets have contributed to the problem by adding to upward pressure on
interest rates.
At the peak of our financial crisis last summer, home mortgages were virtually
unavailable in many parts of the country. And small savers were being heavily
penalized because Government rules limited the interest rates they carried
on their savings deposits to far less than the rates carried by wealthier in-
dividuals with deposits of $100,000 or more. At the same time the availability
of much higher rates of interest on their investments outside of the savings
institutions caused individuals to shift their funds out of mortgage-lending in-
stitutions. As a result, savers, mortgage borrowers, and the housing industry
have all been penalized by these obsolete regulations.
Five years ago, a Presidential commission undertook the study of the prob-
lems experienced by financial institutions. In 1973, the conclusions of this study
led to the introduction of the Financial Institutions Act. The Act encourages
greater competition and responsiveness to the changing needs of depositors
and borrowers. Last year, I endorsed that legislation and urged that the Con-
gress give it priority. Extensive hearings were held in the Senate. Representatives
of financial institutions and the concerned public have expressed their views.
Today, I am resubmitting the Financial Institutions Act, with the assurance
that the many months of debate and consideration have brought all of us
nearer to basic agreement on this important reform.
This bill contains certain notable changes from the legislation put before you
in 1973. But the overall objectives remain the same-providing new opportuni-
ties for savers to earn a competitive return on their investment, and providing
homebuyers with greater assurance that the flow of funds for home mortgages
will not be dramatically disrupted during periods of high interest rates. To
achieve these objectives, the bill permits institutions engaged in serving small
depositors more flexibility both in obtaining and investing funds. It will permit
the payment of higher interest rates to small savers, and it will also offer a new
tax incentive to most financial institutions to make residential mortgage loans.
New safeguards will require banks to conform to basic standards of Truth-in-
Savings to insure that competition between institutions is fairly and accurately
advertised. Nor will there be any decrease in the Government's regulation of
accounting or security measures. Increased competition between financial insti-
379
