[276]
May 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. The Soviet Union, as a cochairman of the Geneva conference,
obviously has an interest in and a responsibility for progress in the Middle East.
I notice that they have been meeting officially, diplomatically with representa-
tives from Israel, and they have been meeting in the same way with many Arab
nations. I think this could be constructive, and I certainly hope it is.
MR. DE SEGONZAC. Mr. President, Mr. Schlesinger has again stressed the possi-
bility of using force in case of an embargo in the Middle East, and he said that
if there was another embargo, the United States would not have so much
patience as last time. How do you feel about that, and in what case do you
think military force could eventually be used?
THE PRESIDENT. As I said a moment ago, the policy of this Government is one
of cooperation, not confrontation. And if you put the emphasis on cooperation,
then you don't include within any plans you have any military operations.
I don't think I should go beyond that, because everything we are doing in
the Middle East—the numerous meetings I have had with heads of states, the
many consultations that Secretary Kissinger has had with foreign ministers—
it is all aimed in trying to, in a cooperative way, solve the problems of the Middle
East. And none of those plans that we have incorporate any military operations.
MR. BRANDON. Mr. President, if you could give us a longer perspective of his-
tory. Some of your aides believe that the West is in decline. And I was wonder-
ing whether you share that outlook?
THE PRESIDENT. I certainly do not. I think the West is in a very unique situa-
tion today. The West, so to speak, by most standards is technologically ahead
of any other part of the world. The West, I think, under our system of free
governments, is in a position to move ahead, taking the lead in freedom for
people all over the world. It seems to me that whether it is substantively or
otherwise, the West could be on the brink of a leap forward, giving leadership
to the rest of the world. So, I am an optimist, not a pessimist.
MR. MACNEIL. There is one aspect to the Middle East, Mr. President, which
possibly concerns your visit to Europe this next week. Some of your officials
have said that one of your concerns was possibly to suggest to the Alliance that
it widen its sphere of attention and interest. Does that mean into the Middle
East, and what exactly do you have in mind?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think the Alliance, as such, ought to involve itself in
the Middle East. Of course, every one of the countries in Western Europe, in-
cluding the United States and Canada, have an interest in a permanent, peace-
ful solution in the Middle East. And each of the countries will have an impact,
718
