[45]
January 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
it crops up in conversation from time to time in this town-the question of
whether or not you are intellectually up to the job of being the President of the
United States. When you hear that kind of talk or read that in print, does it
bother you?
THE PRESIDENT. It really doesn't, Tom. And I suppose people wonder why it
doesn't bother me. My answer is as hard as the question that you asked.
years
If grades one gets in school are a criteria-and we have been doing it for
and are still doing it—whether I was in high school or at the University of Mich-
igan or at Yale Law School, I was always in the upper third or the upper 10
percent of my class.
Now, if I don't have the academic capability-being in either the upper third
at Yale Law School or in the upper 20-some percent at the University of Mich-
igan—there must be an awful lot of people much dumber than I.
Now, I don't think that is the only way by which you judge people. I think
grades are important, judgment is a pretty important factor, and a capability on
the part of a person to work, to analyze problems is equally important.
And I think the fact that I have done reasonably well, both in Congress, in
first getting there, and number two, in getting to be a leader and retaining that
post for five elections among my peers as a Member on our side of the aisle—I
think that does show some feeling on the part of responsible people that I have
the capability of doing the job.
MR. BROKAW. Mr. President, I want to just ask you about a personal moment
that I witnessed in Vladivostok. After you signed the agreement with General
Secretary Brezhnev and there was a shaking of hands, and the champagne, I
caught you looking out kind of into the distance for a moment there, and I
thought I saw, at least in your eyes, a question of "What in the world am I doing
here a year after being in the House of Representatives?"
Do you sometimes find yourself, given the way you came to this office, stopping
for a moment and thinking that and wondering as these events brush by you?
THE PRESIDENT. I cannot recall that particular incident, Tom, but to be honest
and frank with you, yes, I have thought-I never anticipated that I would be in
the White House, in this building where this program is originating.
I had other political ambitions, and I prepared myself primarily for those objec-
tives. But nevertheless, even though I have wondered how it all happened, I
feel very secure in the capability that I have to do the job. And I can assure you
that my feeling of security, my feeling of certainty that I can handle it grows
every day. But nevertheless, you cannot help but wonder sometimes, how did
it all happen.
106
