April 3
[166]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
under these circumstances, to resign. And I don't think his resignation would
have any significance on our humanitarian efforts.
VIETNAMESE REFUGEES
[7.] Q. In that regard, are there any plans underway by the U.S. Govern-
ment to accept large numbers of Vietnamese refugees in this country other than
the 2,000 orphans that you have talked about?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, under existing law, action by the Attorney General can
permit refugees who are fleeing problems in their own country to come to the
United States. This authority was used after World War II. This authority was
used after the Hungarian invasion by the Soviet Union. This authority has been
used on a number of other occasions. I can assure you that that authority is being
examined, and if it will be helpful, I certainly will approve it.
RECESSION
[8.] Q. Mr. President, what is your judgment now on when you expect the
recession to end and recovery to begin? Is it the third quarter of this year, or will
it be later?
THE PRESIDENT. Our best judgment is that the recession will turn around
during the third quarter of this calendar year. We are already seeing some sig-
nificant changes in the statistics that give us more certainty that the recession
will end and that economic recovery will begin in the third quarter of this
calendar year.
Q. Could you tell us what those signs are, please, sir?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. The latest report shows that there has been an increase
in the ordering of manufactured goods—the first time, I think, in 6 months
that there has been an increase rather than a decrease.
Interest rates are dropping; more money for borrowers is being made avail-
able. The inflation is receding, or at least the rate of inflation is receding. As of
the last report, it would annualize at about 7.2 percent, contrasted with a 12- or
13-percent rate of inflation in 1974.
When you
add up all these various economic indicators, it does show that the
recession is receding and that economic conditions will get better in the third
quarter of 1975.
FEDERAL SPENDING AND THE 1976 CAMPAIGN
[9.] Q. Mr. President, in line with the spending question, last year when
you campaigned in California, you asked voters to help defeat the big spenders
417
