[137]
March 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
And I express again my appreciation for the warmth of this reception. But this
communication must not just be a search for new technology but for the human
and spiritual qualities that enrich American life.
In the future, fewer people must produce more. We must, therefore, unleash
intellectual capacities to anticipate and solve our problems. The academic world
must join in the revival of fundamental American values. Let us build a new
sense of pride in being an American.
Yes, you can make America what you want it to be. Think about that for just
a moment, if you would. Is it really true? Yes, in my judgment, it is.
But there is a catch to it. You will never see it come true. Perhaps your chil-
dren or your grandchildren will. What you can do is move America slowly but
surely along the right direction.
Admittedly, today's America is far from perfect, but it is much closer to the
America that my class of 1935 wanted than it was when I left the University of
Michigan.
Today's America is a far better place than it was 40 years ago when the linger-
ing shadows of worldwide depression were being blotted out by the darker
clouds of worldwide war. My generation did not wholly save the world, ob-
viously. But we did, to a degree, help to move it along in the right direction.
We learned along the way that we are part of “one world.” The author of
that phrase was a Hoosier, the first political candidate about whom I got per-
sonally involved enough to volunteer as a campaign worker. His name was
Wendell Willkie.
Wendell Willkie, of Indiana, was never President, but he was right. He
fought for what he believed in against almost impossible odds. In the last Presi-
dential campaign before Pearl Harbor, he believed most deeply-too far ahead
of his time, perhaps—that America must be part of one world. He lost the 1940
election, but he helped unite America in support of the truth, which has been
our nonpartisan national policy since the Second World War. And I say with
emphasis, there has been no third world war. On the contrary, the prospects for
long-range peace have slowly but surely improved.
Despite setbacks and current international problems, the standards of human
life have been lifted almost everywhere. Yet today, we hear another theme:
that the tide of history is running against us; that America's example of Ameri-
can leadership is neither needed nor heeded at the present time; that we should
take care of ourselves and let the rest of mankind do likewise; that our
domestic difficulties dictate a splendid selfishness that runs counter to all of our
religious roots, as well as to all recent experience.
360
