February 4
[72]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
THE PRESIDENT. I do not know what the source was of information that was
given to me, but I was given information by a high-ranking official of the
Department of Justice. I do not know what the source of that information was.
Q. Was it Attorney General Mitchell, then Attorney General Mitchell?
The President. It was not the Attorney General, John Mitchell.
Q. Was it FBI Director J. Edgar Hoover?
THE PRESIDENT. It was not. Two times and you are out, Helen. [Laughter]
CANDIDACY IN 1976
[3.] Q. Mr. President, we have a story that Senator Howard Baker from
up here in Tennessee is seriously considering seeking the Republican nomina-
tion. In view of a late poll which gives you a rating of 60 percent negative with
the American people, in view of your findings here, sir, what is your feeling
about any chance or any opportunity you will seek a full term as President?
THE PRESIDENT. I have indicated that it is my intention to be a candidate in
1976, and of course, in our system anybody can, if they so desire, qualify to be
a candidate in any primary. I can only indicate what my intention might be,
and I pass no judgment on what anybody else might do.
Q. Do you think the economic situation, though, that you will be able to lick
it, of course, increasing your chances?
THE PRESIDENT. I believe that the economic situation in 1976 will be an im-
proving economic picture. It won't perhaps be as good as we would like it, but
I believe that unemployment will be going down and employment will be going
up, and we will be doing a considerable amount better in the battle against
inflation than we did in the last 12 months.
So, with the optimism that I think will come from more employment, less
unemployment, and a better battle against inflation, I think the economic cir-
cumstances will be good enough to justify at least my seeking reelection.
GENERAL SECRETARY BREZHNEV OF THE SOVIET UNION
[4.] Q. Mr. President, when you left Vladivostok in November, we were
led to understand that General Secretary Brezhnev would be in Washington in
May or June. The time is running short; a lot has happened in American-Soviet
relations since then. Do you still look forward to welcoming Mr. Brezhnev just
3 or 4 months from now?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Cormier [Frank Cormier, Associated Press], I look for-
ward to having the General Secretary in the United States in the summer of
1975. The negotiations which we concluded in Vladivostok are moving along
185
