January 21
[36]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
a fair opportunity to get their funds. And I hope the Congress won't make too
many changes in it.
Miss Thomas [Helen Thomas, United Press International].
THE MIDDLE EAST
[3.] Q. On recent occasions, several times you have warned of the serious
possibility of another war in the Middle East. Why, then, is the United States
contributing so heavily to the military buildup there? And I have a followup.
The President. The United States does feel that the danger of war in the
Middle East is very serious. I have said it repeatedly, and I say it again here
today. But in order to avoid that, we are maximizing our diplomatic efforts
with Israel as well as with several Arab States.
In order to maintain the internal security of the various countries, in order
to maintain equilibrium in arms capability, one nation against the other, we
are supplying some arms to various states in that region. I think, while we
negotiate, or while we expand our diplomatic efforts, it is important to main-
tain a certain degree of military capability on all sides.
PRESIDENT'S WAR POWERS
[4.] Q. Mr. President, both you and Secretary Kissinger have said that in
case of strangulation of the West by oil producers, you would use military
force—and you were hypothetically speaking. I think on that same basis the
American people would like to know whether you would require a Congres-
sional declaration of war or whether you would bypass that constitutional
process, as some of your predecessors have done?
The President. I can assure you that on any occasion where there was any
commitment of U.S. military personnel to any engagement, we would use the
complete constitutional process that is required of the President.
Yes, Mr. Brokaw [Tom Brokaw, NBC News].
THE NATION'S ECONOMY
[5.] Q. Mr. President, I believe I have detected the subtle thunder of politics
interwoven among the bid by Washington officials to come up with a program
for the Nation's energy and the economy. My question goes to you, sir. Do you
feel that your political future is tied directly to turning the economy around,
and more specifically, can a man be elected to your office when polls show that
a large majority of the public does not have confidence in his handling of the
economy?
63
