[45]
January 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
role is in it in about 6 months. If things don't work out quite the way that you
want them to, will it change your mind at all about your own future in this
office?
THE PRESIDENT. Tom, I think I said that the public could judge my perform-
ance better at the end of 6 months than they could at the present time. It has
been about 5½ months since I have been President. We have had some tough
decisions, both at home and abroad. We are facing a very difficult and very
critical period domestically for the next 6 to 12 months.
I said that, in the interview, based on the programs that I had submitted for
the economy and for energy, I believe we will make some headway. And if we
do, it will be discernible within 6 months, maybe not as much as I would like,
but at least we will be out of the slump and starting to move upward. And then
I think that is a better time for people to judge me than at the present time.
MR. CHANCELLOR. Sir, if in early 1976 we are at double-digit inflation and
unemployment is over 7 percent, would you be a candidate for office again?
The President. Those are pretty tough odds, and I think anybody has to be
realistic. But I add very quickly, John, I don't think that is going to happen,
because the resiliency of the American economy is such that we are going to
rebound from this recession, and I think we will do it more quickly and in a
better way than most pessimists say. So, I am not anticipating in 1976 that we
are going to have that high unemployment. I think we will have more jobs,
people will have a fresher, more optimistic point of view. So, based on that fore-
cast, not the one that you speculated on, I am planning to be a candidate in 1976.
MR. CHANCELLOR. On that note, Mr. President, for Tom Brokaw and for me,
I want to thank you, and for NBC News, for having us here in this house this
evening. It was very instructive for us.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you, John, and thank you, Tom. We have enjoyed
having you here.
MR. BROKAW. Thank you, Mr. President.
MR. CHANCELLOR. Thank you, Mr. President.
NOTE: The interview began at 10 p.m. in the family sitting room at the White House. It was broadcast live
on NBC radio and television.
108
