[72]
February 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
72
The President's News Conference of
February 4, 1975
THE PRESIDENT. It is a privilege and a pleasure to be in Atlanta. I have enjoyed
the stay, and am looking forward to this press conference.
Mr. Cutts of the Atlanta paper [Beau Cutts, Atlanta Constitution].
REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
[1.] Q. In the last 24 hours you have spoken at length about domestic con-
cerns. I would like to ask you what options you will have to help maintain a
non-Communist government in Vietnam if the Congress does not go along with
your supplemental appropriation request as well as this fiscal year '76 request
for Vietnam?
THE PRESIDENT. If the Congress does not respond to the requested additional
military assistance for the current fiscal year, an amount which the Congress
last year previously authorized, it will certainly complicate the military situa-
tion from the point of view of the South Vietnamese.
The South Vietnamese on their own, with our financial assistance, our mili-
tary aid, have done very well, but the Congress did not fully fund the requested
military assistance that was requested. I believe that if the Congress funds the
additional money that I have proposed for this fiscal year and continues the
money that I have recommended for next fiscal year, the South Vietnamese can
and will be able to defend themselves against the aggressors from the North.
Q. Yes, sir, the question is, if the Congress fails to do that, what options will
you have then?
THE PRESIDENT. I do not think that the time for me to answer that question
is at the present. I, in the first place, believe the Congress will fund the money
that I have requested, and if they do, then I have no need to look at any other
options, because they will be capable of defending themselves.
The good judgment of the Congress will fund. The South Vietnamese will
defend themselves. And I do not think there will be any other needed options.
Yes, Miss Thomas [Helen Thomas, United Press International].
JUSTICE WILLIAM O. DOUGLAS
[2.] Q. Mr. President, when you were a Congressman and called for the
impeachment of Justice Douglas, did you have access or were you slipped any
secret FBI data?
184
