April 15
[186]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Last summer, the Atlantic Alliance celebrated its 25th year-a quarter of a
century anniversary-25 years of peace through strength on the European
continent. To mark the occasion and to reaffirm our collective resolve, we joined
with other member nations in a declaration of Atlantic relations. I will be meet-
ing personally with allied leaders in the very near future to seek further
progress toward our common goal-a peaceful and a secure free world. But
neither NATO nor the United States can guarantee a peaceful and secure
free world if we allow our defenses to erode.
Now, what about the pricetag? What is it costing us to maintain our military
strength? Critics of a strong defense say that the defense budget is higher than
ever. But the truth is-and this we must understand and we must tell others-
in terms of what each dollar will buy, the defense budget is now lower than any
time since 1964, prior to our Vietnam buildup. The reason for this is that
inflation has taken just as high a toll of the defense dollar's purchasing power
as it has from every family, from every business, from every community.
Take away the effects of inflation and real pay increases, which are necessary
to recruit our new all-volunteer forces, and what is left of the defense budget
has actually declined in purchasing power during the last 4 years.
For example, in 1968, defense spending represented about 60 percent of our
total Federal Government spending. Today, it is down to about 27 percent.
We cannot afford, as I see it, to let our defense strength slide down while
other nations build up their forces. It is the obligation, as I see it, of each of
us to keep America strong-the obligation of the Congress, of this Admin-
istration, and of each American concerned about the future of his or her great
country. And I pledge to you as solemnly and as strongly as I can that I will do
my part, and I am sure each and every one of you will do your part.
A great hero, who led our people both in war and in peace, Dwight Eisen-
hower, once said that a true posture of defense is composed of three factors—
spiritual, military, and economic.
We have the economic and industrial strength it takes to keep America a
first-rate power.
Spiritual strength is less tangible. It is hard to measure in any exact way.
But I can tell you this: I have traveled to just about every corner of America
since becoming President. And, everywhere, I found the same confidence, the
same good spirit, and the same willingness to pull together to make this an
even greater and better country. That is the American spirit that we can be
proud of today, as we have in the past.
Yes, we have our problems, our doubts, and some have many questions.
485
