February 11
[84]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
But I wanted all of you in this great State to know now that this problem is
at the very top of my list of concerns as well as yours.
Let me give you another clear case where energy action is needed that can
materially benefit the people of Kansas. As you know, the demand for nitrogen
fertilizer has begun to outpace its supply. The reason is very simple. Under the
current and outmoded regulatory system, natural gas suppliers have no incentive
to increase or even maintain adequate production and distribution. Thus far
this year, natural gas curtailments have already resulted in the loss of about
140,000 tons of nitrogen fertilizer. Estimates for total loss during the year range
from 200,000 tons to 400,000 tons.
To give you an idea of how important this is, a loss of 200,000 tons, if it were
all concentrated in corn yield, would reduce the 1975 crop by about 160 million
bushels, or about 2½ percent of the total corn crop.
I think we should head off this problem before it gets out of control. And
the way to do it is to deregulate the price of new natural gas in America. But
to do this, quite frankly, I will need your help. I will need the support of
public opinion and, ultimately, the agreement of the Congress.
I could give you word and verse of how hard we have tried to get the Con-
gress to move in this area. But unfortunately, thus far, no action has materialized.
It is a part of that legislative program that I submitted. It is a vital part. But
if we are going to get the kind of nitrogen fertilizer that I mentioned a few
moments ago, we better deregulate natural gas, and the sooner the better.
Now, I would like to announce an important action that I am taking in
response to the request of many Governors. Last week, I met with a number
of Governors in Atlanta, Georgia. Last night, I met with another group of
Governors in Houston, Texas. And I will have the privilege and the honor of
meeting with some additional Governors here this afternoon.
The ones that I have met with have pointed out to me that owing to the
softness in the construction industry, they as Governors will be able to accelerate
work on our highway system at lower cost than in the recent past. Accordingly,
I have ordered the release of up to $2 billion in additional Federal highway
funds.
The Governors have assured me that these funds are needed and can be
put to immediate use in highway construction projects that can be underway
by June 30, 1975. This action will help an industry that has been one of the
hardest hit during our current economic turn-down. In reaching this decision, I
considered that authority is already available in the Highway Trust Fund.
Now, I have urged State governments to focus these additional funds, first, on
219
