[179]
April 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
After two decades of mutual estrangement, we have achieved an historic
opening with the People's Republic of China.
In the best American tradition, we have committed, often with striking
success, our influence and good offices to help contain conflicts and settle
disputes in many, many regions of the world. We have, for example, helped
the parties of the Middle East take the first steps toward living with one another
in peace.
We have opened a new dialog with Latin America, looking toward a
healthier hemispheric partnership. We are developing closer relations with the
nations of Africa. We have exercised international leadership on the great new
issues of our interdependent world, such as energy, food, environment, and
the law of the sea.
The American people can be proud of what their Nation has achieved and
helped others to accomplish, but we have from time to time suffered setbacks
and disappointments in foreign policy. Some were events over which we had
no control; some were difficulties we imposed upon ourselves.
We live in a time of testing and of a time of change. Our world—a world of
economic uncertainty, political unrest, and threats to the peace-does not allow
us the luxury of abdication or domestic discord.
I recall quite vividly the words of President Truman to the Congress when
the United States faced a far greater challenge at the end of the Second World
War. If I might quote: "If we falter in our leadership, we may endanger the
peace of the world, and we shall surely endanger the welfare of this Nation."
President Truman's resolution must guide us today. Our purpose is not to
point the finger of blame, but to build upon our many successes, to repair
damage where we find it, to recover our balance, to move ahead as a united
people. Tonight is a time for straight talk among friends, about where we
stand and where we are going.
A vast human tragedy has befallen our friends in Vietnam and Cambodia.
Tonight I shall not talk only of obligations arising from legal documents. Who
can forget the enormous sacrifices of blood, dedication, and treasure that we
made in Vietnam ?
Under five Presidents and 12 Congresses, the United States was engaged in
Indochina. Millions of Americans served, thousands died, and many more were
wounded, imprisoned, or lost. Over $150 billion have been appropriated for that
war by the Congress of the United States. And after years of effort, we negoti-
ated, under the most difficult circumstances, a settlement which made it possible
for us to remove our military forces and bring home with pride our American
460
