[214]
April 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
simultaneously at three levels of government. Federalism enables our people
to approach their problems through the governments closest to them, rather
than looking to an all-powerful central bureaucracy for every answer.
With the Federal Government heavily committed to international affairs, the
Nation's defense, the state of the economy and the energy problem, we need
strong, effective State and local governments to meet the everyday needs of
our people—for good police and fire protection, education, transportation, sani-
tation, and the basic services of a well-governed society.
In 1972, when General Revenue Sharing was passed, the Federal partnership
was in trouble. The Federal Government, with its highly efficient taxing system,
then collected some two-thirds of the Nation's total tax revenues. Federal rev-
enues, particularly because of the income tax, grew with the economy. However,
State and local revenues are more dependent on real property taxes and sales
taxes. These governments had to meet rising demands for services and costs
through endless rounds of tax increases. Simply stated, revenues had grown
fastest at the Federal level, while needs were growing fastest at the State and
local levels.
The Federal Government, then as now, sought to help States and com-
munities meet their needs through Federal aid. For the most part, this aid is in
the form of categorical grants—that is, narrowly defined, closely controlled
grants for specific purposes. Today, over one thousand of these categorical grants
are available for almost every imaginable objective.
However, the necessity to go to Washington for the solution to many local
problems has had a stifling effect on the creativity and accountability of State
and local governments. Along with Federal aid comes Federal restrictions
which limit local initiative and flexibility.
Furthermore, until the concept of block grants was developed, States and
localities were limited to categorical grants which were designed to lead State
and local governments in new directions. Consequently, the recipients, all too
often, headed in the direction where the grant monies were available, rather
than where their genuine needs existed.
Finally, much of the aid the Federal Government makes available has to be
matched by State and local funds. The impact of this requirement is often to
aggravate rather than to alleviate a State or local government's financial plight.
This was the situation the executive branch and the Congress faced in 1972—
a Federal system endangered by the growing impoverishment of two out of
the system's three partners. This is the situation that the Federal Government
wisely met, by the passage of General Revenue Sharing.
580
