[96]
February 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
view to implementing the Vladivostok accords and reaching a new strategic
offensive arms agreement between the United States and the Soviet Union. This
agreement would cover the period through 1985 and include both quantitative
and qualitative arms limitations. Additional efforts in the field of arms limita-
tion and disarmament will be devoted to the negotiation of an agreement on
underground nuclear explosions for peaceful purposes, to the development of
sound international approaches to the problems of nuclear non-proliferation,
to the continuation of efforts to reach agreement on mutual and balance force
reductions in Central Europe, and to international discussions of the problems
of chemical and environmental warfare.
The Arms Control and Disarmament Agency plays an effective and major
role in all of these activities. By continuing these negotiations and by seeking
solutions to the many complex and difficult problems involved, the Arms Con-
trol and Disarmament Agency will play an even more important role in future
arms control and disarmament activities.
The attached draft bill would authorize $23.0 million in appropriations for
the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency for fiscal years 1976 and 1977.
Current authorization and appropriations expire June 30, 1975. The draft bill
would also permit the Director of the Agency to grant access to classified infor-
mation to contractors or subcontractors and their officers and employees on the
basis of security clearances granted by the Department of Defense. This amend-
ment would eliminate many unnecessary, expensive and time-consuming inves-
tigations in cases where the Agency would require the services of contractors
whose officers and employees have already been cleared by the Department of
Defense.
I urge early enactment of this measure.
Sincerely,
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters addressed
to the Honorable Carl Albert, Speaker of the House
of Representatives, and the Honorable Nelson A.
GERALD R. FORD
Rockefeller, President of the Senate. The text of the
draft legislation was included as part of the release.
262
