[229]
May 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
should be extremely thankful for what you have done and I am sure will continue
to do.
And so, on behalf of the American people, I thank you for this service and
commend you for this award.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:15 p.m. in the
Cabinet Room at the White House. He presented
the award to State Senator Elton W. Ringsak, Sr.,
of North Dakota.
The President was introduced by Harold Rus-
sell, Chairman of the President's Committee on
Employment of the Handicapped.
230
Remarks at the Swearing In of the Membership of the
Consumer Advisory Council. May 1, 1975
Mrs. Knauer, members of and prospective members of the consumer advisory
group:
Let me congratulate you, Virginia, and those that have worked with you and
to wish the new members well in their responsibilities, which I think are very
important, as we continue the efforts that have been made, hopefully to expand
them, to make sure, to make positive that the consumer is given the maximum
protection by all agencies of the Federal Government.
There is, of course, in my opinion, two very critical areas where the consumer
needs help: one, price; and two, quality. And quality, of course, covers a very
wide range.
I have asked Mrs. Knauer, with the help of this advisory group, to work with
all departments of the Federal Government. Each department, with her help
and assistance, will have within it a very important responsibility—that of help-
ing the consumer. She, of course, can get from this distinguished group the kind
of advice that is needed and necessary in order to make the Government's opera-
tion a successful one from the point of view of the consumer.
I have great faith in Mrs. Knauer. I believe this advisory group will contribute
significantly.
And so, it's a privilege and a pleasure for me at this time to ask Mr. Ratchford
to come forth and swear in the five new members of the Consumer Advisory
Council.
Mr. Ratchford.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:54 p.m. in the
Cabinet Room at the White House. Executive Clerk
John J. Ratchford administered the oath of office
to Stewart M. Lee, Edward R. Willett, Hans B.
Thorelli, George E. Myers, and Jean Mayer. Virginia
H. Knauer was Special Assistant to the President for
Consumer Affairs.
Council Chairman Lee's response to the Presi-
dent's remarks is printed in the Weekly Compila-
tion of Presidential Documents (vol. 11, p. 474).
618
