February 3
[64]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
In addition, the Federal Government has further expanded its research and
development program to provide the new and improved technologies necessary
for increasing the use of our domestic energy resources. Outlays for energy
research and development will be $1.7 billion in 1976, an increase of 36% over
1975 and 102% over 1974. My budget recommendations continue our vigorous
nuclear research and development program and further accelerate nonnuclear
energy research and development-particularly in coal and solar energy. To
provide a better organizational framework for this effort, last October I signed
into law an act creating the Energy Research and Development Administration,
which brings together within a single agency the Government's various research
and development programs relating to fossil fuels, nuclear energy, and other
energy technologies such as geothermal and solar. An independent Nuclear
Regulatory Commission has also been established to improve the regulatory
process associated with nuclear plant licensing, safety, and nuclear materials
safeguards, and to separate this function from nuclear power development
activities.
AGRICULTURE.—Besides fuel costs, the cost of food has been the other special
problem in the inflationary surge of the past two years. A worldwide decline in
agricultural production due in part to adverse weather conditions has created
shortages that have been critical in some areas and have sent world food prices
soaring.
In response to these shortages, we have stimulated U.S. production by elimi-
nating Government-imposed crop restrictions originally designed to prevent
surpluses. Our increased production will help to curb inflation and will aid in
relieving severe food shortages abroad. To the extent that we can produce
beyond our domestic needs, we will be able to increase our agricultural exports
and share our increased supplies with hungry peoples overseas.
NATIONAL SECURITY AND FOREIGN RELATIONS
The ultimate goal of American foreign policy is to ensure the freedom, secu-
rity, and well-being of the United States as part of a peaceful and prosperous
international community. Our diplomacy, backed by a strong national defense,
strives to strengthen this international community through the peaceful resolu-
tion of international disputes, through arms control, and by fostering coopera-
tion and mutual restraint. We seek a healthy world economy through expanded
trade, cooperative solutions to energy problems, and increased world agricul-
tural production to meet mankind's need for food. In today's interdependent
155
