[90]
February 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
The budget for fiscal 1976 which I proposed to Congress calls for a $16 billion
reduction in Federal taxes. It includes an expansion of $36 billion or 11½ percent
in Federal expenditures. That is more than I would have liked, but that is what
resulted primarily from programs that are on the books that simply grow and
grow as long as more people become eligible.
Some people allege those programs are uncontrollable. And in the past, that
has been a frequently used term, that the budget reflects "uncontrollable" items.
We are introducing a new word at the White House. We don't accept “uncon-
trollable" expenditures, and we expect the Congress to work with us in doing
something about so-called uncontrolled Federal expenditures.
Now let me revert, if I might, back to the budget that was submitted. It does
propose a deficit of $52 billion for the next fiscal year beginning July 1. And by
any standard, that is a lot of stimulus-a billion dollars a week in deficit, an
expenditure figure for the next fiscal year of $349-point-some expenditures,
almost a billion dollars of expenditure per day by the Federal Government.
By any standard, I repeat, that is a lot of stimulus, and yet I do not believe, as
we have looked at the total picture, it is too much under present circumstances,
I believe that a deficit of this size can be financed in fiscal year 1976. I cannot
say the same—and I emphasize and reemphasize—I cannot say the same for a
much larger deficit, which will result if the Congress does not support my rec-
ommended $17 billion cutback in some previously programed Federal spending.
Quite frankly, that is why I pledge to hold the line on old spending and draw
the line on new spending. I feel very strongly that we cannot afford to lose this
battle, or our economic recovery will end up again in another inflation-recession
cycle.
The current recession is compounded by the energy crisis. I think we recog-
nize that. Neither problem can be ignored; each makes solving the other much
more difficult.
Now, some would like to forget about the energy challenge and concentrate
all attention and all of our resources on our current recession. I only wish that
we could. But we simply cannot afford to turn our backs on a growing vulner-
ability to unreliable foreign sources of oil, foreign sources of energy, if you will.
We can still avoid a disaster that could wreck not only our economy but the
economic structure of the industrialized democracies throughout the world.
Without question, there is a link between economic problems at home and the
world energy situation and the complications posed by the international oil
cartel, and most Americans are well aware of it.
It is my hope that a responsible majority of both political parties in the Con-
240
