April 7
[171]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
our own labors, and our own money in any adventure, we are infinitely more
concerned about its success, and government is no exception.
Another of my concerns with the tax cut law is the possibility that some of the
temporary changes will become permanent, producing a continuing loss of
tax revenues. Once enacted, as Howard Cannon knows, many programs become
permanent.
If the present pace of escalating social spending continues—and this is a
startling statistic—in other words, if the present growth of social spending
continues, as it has for the last two decades, about 9 percent per year, by the year
2000 one-half of our Nation will be producers and supporters for the other half.
That assumes no change in any of the existing laws. It is just a projection of what
has happened, what has transpired in the last 20 years.
The American people today are being forced to live within tight budgets
to cope with the recession caused by decades of deficits and ever-expanding
Government programs.
The Congress must learn to live within the Nation's means. It should fix
an absolute ceiling on Federal spending for the coming year, the $60 billion
limit where I drew the line.
It is my best judgment—and I am encouraged by what I see in the House and
Senate budget committees I have urged the Congress to put the already enacted
procedures of the Congressional budget and impoundment act of 1974 into
effect a whole year ahead of schedule, starting this July 1.
We don't need any practice on this playing field. The time has come for the
Congress to use this new legislative enactment to win the game, and if they
start July 1, I think great results can be the end of their actions.
Now, the urgency of Congressional action to establish a ceiling and to list
priorities requires the Congress to move up the deadline, as I have indicated.
It is reasonable to expect the Congress to spend the Nation's money within
an ordered budget, just as you have to in your businesses and at your home.
The Federal Government must exercise self-control and self-discipline in
the expenditure of your tax dollar. I am disappointed, I must say, that there is
substantial evidence that the Congress in various subcommittees, various com-
mittees, shows no self-control or no such discipline. Instead, committee after
committee and subcommittee after subcommittee is producing budget-breaking
deficit adding to old programs and new spending programs—all in the name
of stimulating the economy or helping, group by group, those hurt by the
recession.
The Congress must promptly take action to impose upon itself limits not
445
