June 17
[335]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
and some feelings with this very distinguished cross-section of what has come
to be known as the small business community.
Personally, I have always been a little amused by the term "small business-
man." A few years ago, after a meeting like this, I asked one of the speakers
what his definition of a big businessman would be. He said, "Congressman, it's
very simple. A big businessman is what a small businessman would be if the
Government would ever let him alone!" [Laughter]
I want small business to grow. America's future depends upon your enterprise.
I want small business released from the shackles of Federal redtape. Your
tremendous efforts are stifled by unnecessary, unfair, and unclear rules and
regulations.
I want very desperately to have small business freed from the excessive Fed-
eral paperwork. Your time can be used far more productively, and you know
it better than I.
In the months ahead, we face a very critical choice: Shall business and govern-
ment work together in a free economy for the betterment of all? Or shall we
slide headlong into an economy whose vital decisions are made by politicians
while the private sector dries up and shrivels away?
My resources as your President and my resolve as your President are devoted
to the free enterprise system.
Let me assure you without equivocation, I do not intend to celebrate our
Bicentennial by reversing the great principles on which the United States was
founded.
The increasing growth of government and the escalating interventions with
which you are all too familiar dramatize the need to keep Federal authority
within reasonable bounds.
I see a direct connection between the spirit of the American Constitution and
a competitive, privately oriented economy.
In the last few years, the estimated 10 million businesses in America—from
mom and pop stores to huge corporations-have struggled to adapt to consumer
protection laws, to environmental mandates, to energy shortages, to inflation,
to recession, and to complicated and high taxation.
Depending on their size and resources, some businesses can survive over-
regulation better than others. Larger corporations have specialized staffs of
accountants and attorneys. Small businessmen and small businesswomen have
nobody but themselves.
Businesses, both large and small, look with dismay at the fantastic pace of
Federal spending. They foresee an end to the individual initiative in American
827
