March 14
[135]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
I don't think we can look at this rebate on a political basis. We have to look
on how a rebate will affect all Americans. It is sometimes fashionable to talk
as if what is good for the American economy is not good for the American
people. This tendency to treat the economy as an abstract idea divorced from
the lives of the citizens leads to some unfortunate piecemeal proposals.
When the economy is sound, it means the people of this Nation are able to
live comfortably without fear of inflation and with jobs.
To meet the proposed April 1 deadline on the tax cut, which is a program
to stimulate the economy to provide jobs, the Senate must act before it recesses
March 21, and the House of Representatives before its March 26 Easter recess.
The tax cut is only a part of the program that this Administration—that I
proposed in January, and there has been more response from Capitol Hill on
this proposal than on many others. But as necessary as the tax cut is for the
reasons that I have given, it is only a very small piece of the total action that
must be taken and taken quickly.
It is my judgment that the Congress must act on other parts of this total
package, especially in the field of energy. In the State of the Union Address, I
called for action in 90 days on a more comprehensive tax program. The first
response by the Congress to this plea unfortunately was to negate any action
by the President to impose levies on imported oil, and those levies were imposed
for the purpose of trying to remove our Nation's vulnerability and to stimulate
action by the Congress, but the reaction of the Congress was to attempt to
suspend Presidential authority for 90 days.
I think many of you know that I vetoed that bill, but I did, in the spirit of
compromise, delay the imposition of the added import levies until May 1
to give more time for the Congress to act in committees, on the floor of the
House and the Senate, and in the final action in a conference.
It is my very serious judgment that the Nation's current economic and energy
situation is so critical that the deadline for action cannot be pushed back in-
definitely. As you well know, the time comes when there is a final deadline;
we in America are approaching that point. Every day of delay by the Con-
gress makes the United States more and more vulnerable to decisions by the
foreign oil cartels.
There is national agreement on the need for action and the ultimate result.
And there is within the spirit of the American people a willingness to accept
the hard choices required to regain economic stability and achieve energy
independence.
351
