January 16
[32]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
We found, for example, that if no new programs were enacted and we simply
extended existing programs, that the deficit for the Federal Government for this
current fiscal year ending June 30, the deficit would be over $30 billion and that
the deficit for the next fiscal year, beginning June 1, would be $45 to $46 billion.
So, the net result is, with no new programs we would have roughly $75 to
$80 billion in deficits. That is a lot of money-I don't care how you add it up.
But despite that unfortunate fiscal situation, it was my judgment that we
ought to recommend a tax reduction, as I have described it. However, in order
to justify the tax reduction, I had to make several other hard decisions, one of
them, no new Federal spending programs, period.
I am not going to recommend any, and I have said that if the Congress sends
them to the White House, they will be vetoed. That had to be a condition for the
tax reduction.
Number two, I had to take a look at some of these Federal programs that have
built-in escalators predicated on the cost-of-living increases, such as Federal
Government pay, such as Federal Government retirement, military retirement,
social security-all of them have built-in escalators predicated on the increases in
the cost of living.
I have said that the Congress had to work with me to hold the lid on those
increases. We are not going to deny people an increase, but we have put a cap
of 5 percent on the increases. That means that there will be some reduction from
the anticipated increases, but not much.
But as I said in the speech yesterday, this is a time for sacrifice, and if every-
body doesn't sacrifice a little, we are all going to be in serious trouble. And we
are in bad enough trouble right now.
I hope the Congress will respond. If that cap is included, it will save, as I
recollect, roughly $10 billion. Isn't that right, Bill? It will save roughly $10
billion in the 12-month period.
But it does provide, as I said a moment ago, no permanent freeze, no reduc-
tion. It is simply a 5-percent increase in those escalated programs—pay, et cetera.
In the energy program, we had to make some hard decisions. You could have
gas rationing. Some people have advocated that. We aren't going to solve the
energy supply program within a year. As a matter of fact, it will be 5 years or
more before we have an adequate supply of energy to take care of our own
domestic demands.
So, if you are going to have gas rationing, you have to plan it on a 5-year basis,
not on a 1-year basis. I don't think a 5-year gas rationing program is sustainable.
In wartime, World War II, it worked. But in this situation, I do not think a
53
