[72]
February 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
the road we have just avoided and, I think, multiply, not help our present
economic circumstances.
WAGE AND PRICE CONTROLS
[17.] Q. Sir, to follow up, some economists and some Democrats have
proposed
THE PRESIDENT. I am glad you say Democrats are not economists, or vice
versa. [Laughter]
Q. Sir, there is a proposal that a larger degree of stimulation combined with
wage and price controls would solve the problem of the recession, while pre-
venting another round of inflation. Do you, sir, regard wage and price controls
as worse than an 8-percent unemployment rate for the next 2 years?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think, when you are faced with the kind of adverse
economic circumstances we have today, a recession which we are trying to get
out of, that wage-and-price-control medicine is the answer to the economic
problem. And I believe that the stimulant I have proposed with the tax reduc-
tion, with the responsible expenditure limitations, is a very fine line that will
permit us to get out of the recession and avoid double-digit inflation. And to
put on top of this kind of an economy wage and price controls would be the
worst kind of medicine that I can foresee.
FISCAL ADVICE TO STATE LEGISLATURES
[18.] Q. Mr. President, I am Selby McCash, with the Macon Telegraph
and the Macon News. The Georgia General Assembly is in session at the mo-
ment, and many State legislatures are. What advice could you give the State
lawmakers to augment and supplement your programs on economy and energy?
Quite simply, is there anything these gentlemen on the State level can do?
The President. I believe that State legislatures have an obligation, such as
we have in the Federal Government, to try and handle their fiscal affairs in a
responsible way. I do not think the State legislatures or municipal governments
should act irresponsibly and then come to the Federal Government for more
funds over and above what has been recommended in the budget that I have
submitted to the Congress.
If they have financial problems, I think they have to face up to them. I believe
that they will have to tighten their belts, in some cases, on the expenditure side
and they may have to increase taxes, as Governor Carey of New York has pro-
posed. But anyhow, they should not act irresponsibly and then come to the
Federal Government and expect us, under our circumstances, to bail them out.
194
