[179]
April 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
name of the American people that the United States will make a maximum
humanitarian effort to help care for and feed these hopeless victims.
And now I ask the Congress to clarify immediately its restrictions on the use
of U.S. military forces in Southeast Asia for the limited purposes of protecting
American lives by ensuring their evacuation, if this should be necessary. And I
also ask prompt revision of the law to cover those Vietnamese to whom we have
a very special obligation and whose lives may be endangered should the worst
come to pass.
I hope that this authority will never have to be used, but if it is needed, there
will be no time for Congressional debate. Because of the gravity of the situation,
I ask the Congress to complete action on all of these measures not later than
April 19.
In Cambodia, the situation is tragic. The United States and the Cambodian
Government have each made major efforts, over a long period and through
many channels, to end that conflict. But because of their military successes,
steady external support, and their awareness of American legal restrictions, the
Communist side has shown no interest in negotiation, compromise, or a political
solution. And yet, for the past 3 months, the beleaguered people of Phnom
Penh have fought on, hoping against hope that the United States would not
desert them, but instead provide the arms and ammunition they so badly
needed.
I have received a moving letter from the new acting President of Cambodia,
Saukham Khoy, and let me quote it for you:
"Dear Mr. President," he wrote, “As the American Congress reconvenes to
reconsider your urgent request for supplemental assistance for the Khmer Re-
public, I appeal to you to convey to the American legislators our plea not to
deny these vital resources to us, if a nonmilitary solution is to emerge from
this tragic 5-year-old conflict.
"To find a peaceful end to the conflict we need time. I do not know.how
much time, but we all fully realize that the agony of the Khmer people cannot
and must not go on much longer. However, for the immediate future, we need
the rice to feed the hungry and the ammunition and the weapons to defend our-
selves against those who want to impose their will by force [of arms]. A denial
by the American people of the means for us to carry on will leave us no alterna-
tive but inevitably abandoning our search for a solution which will give our
citizens some freedom of choice as to their future. For a number of years now
the Cambodian people have placed their trust in America. I cannot believe that
464
