January 9
[24]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
I warmly welcome Elliot Richardson back into the service of our country
and am confident that he will represent America with the highest distinction.
24
Remarks Upon Establishing the National Commission
on the Observance of International Women's Year, 1975.
January 9, 1975
Mr. Vice President, members of the Cabinet, ladies and gentlemen:
Let me at the outset thank all of the distinguished guests for being here on
this auspicious occasion today.
Since most Executive orders are handled in a rather routine way,
it is some-
times easy to overlook their particular significance. But this one, as you can
see, has a very special significance.
This order creates a National Commission to observe International Women's
Year in 1975. The activities generated by this Commission will reinforce our
continuing national commitment to women's rights.
This event officially marks another step in our Nation's efforts and efforts
around the world, for that matter, to improve the educational, economic, and
social status of women.
The dramatic advances women have made-in politics, sports, business,
science, and other areas of endeavor—are finally receiving the attention that
they deserve. The gains demonstrate very real progress.
But headlines do not guarantee that all barriers are down. The equal rights
amendment, which I wholeheartedly endorse, has not yet been ratified by the
number of States necessary to make it a part of our Constitution. Let 1975, In-
ternational Women's Year, be the year that ERA is ratified.
In the meantime, we will continue to explore legal inequities between sexes
that can be changed by legislation. The gains of the past, of course, must be
consolidated, but we must also break new ground.
Breaking such ground means more than headline news of the first woman
to chair a national political party or the first woman airline pilot. It means equal
pay for equal work for the one woman of every three workers in the world
labor market. It means educational and social opportunities for women of all
nationalities.
Equality for women is one objective of International Women's Year; another
25
