[63]
February 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
63
Remarks Upon Signing the Budget Message.
February 3, 1975
Good morning, everybody.
No single act a President can take sets forth our national goals and our
national priorities so completely and so clearly as the annual Budget Message
to the Congress. That is why I am particularly pleased to see here this morning
so many of you who have worked so long and so hard on this particular docu-
ment-to witness the signing ceremony which is the culmination of these
efforts.
Both custom and good manners call for the Chief Executive to seek the
cooperation of the Congress and to pledge his own as he, on this occasion,
submits his budget document. The size of the projected deficit requires me to go
far beyond custom and good manners in pledging my utmost cooperation.
Together, we must stimulate the economy and reduce the rate of growth at
which certain Federal expenditures have been growing in the past 10 years.
If these were normal economic times, the Congress would be receiving a
budget in balance for the coming fiscal year rather than one with such a large
deficit. But unfortunately these are not normal times, and the measures that
I am proposing—to give the economy a boost with tax rebates and reductions,
and to provide greatly expanded assistance to the unemployed—are responsible
for some of the deficit. Lagging receipts from tax revenues contribute to most
of the remainder of this deficit.
Without question, our immediate task is the restoration of active growth in
our economy, and that goal is reflected in the projected budget deficit. To sus-
tain our economic growth over the long haul, we must begin now to set a new
course that will bring our future national budgets into balance during periods
of good economic growth.
Although this budget carries with it a $52 billion deficit, this amount will
be even larger if the Congress fails to go along with the reductions totaling $17
billion which I have requested. If we are to achieve long-range economic sta-
bility in America, free from ever-rising inflation, we must put into effect perma-
nent reductions in program expenditures.
As I said at the press briefing on the budget last Saturday, it has become a
commonly accepted view that some Government expenditures are uncontrol-
144
