[369]
July 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
the need for permanent jobs. These jobs must come from full production in the
private sector.
One initiative in this area is the promotion of assistance for minority business.
Representatives of the NAACP have been very helpful in developing plans
to coordinate Government programs in this area, and I compliment you for it.
In fiscal year 1975 that ended at midnight last night, minority enterprise
programs of the Small Business Administration alone created or saved 63,000
jobs. Twenty-five percent of all SBA loans and 16 percent of the total dollars
went to minority business.
To make certain that job opportunities in the Federal Government are open
to all Americans, each department and each agency will vigorously enforce the
equal opportunity employment laws. To make sure, to make certain job op-
portunities are open in the private sector, I have emphasized to Lowell Perry,
the new Chairman of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, this
Administration's commitment to the elimination of all vestiges of job dis-
crimination because of race, religion, or sex.
The EEOC budget in fiscal year 1976 is over $60 million, or $6½ million up
from 1975. Federal civil rights enforcement outlays for fiscal year 1976 are $395
million, $34 million more than in the previous year. But equal opportunity for
equal employment and civil rights enforcement are most meaningful when
the economy is strong, when the economy is vibrant. And full recovery will be
possible only if we act together responsibly.
I will continue to work with the Congress to balance fiscal responsibility
against measured economic stimulation. This Administration and the Congress
cannot achieve a sensible, long-term approach to the national economy without
your help, the help of all Americans.
Your leadership, your influence are needed in working to implement a sound
fiscal economy. We must work together to insure the financial soundness of
our Nation that makes equality, that makes freedom possible for all Americans.
America is stronger because of the vitality of your organization, and I say
that with emphasis. America is more creative because of your imagination.
America is closer to achieving its constitutional promise of the blessings of
liberty for all its citizens because of your dedication and your spirit.
The entire Nation is at last waking up to the contribution and potential of
black people. And along with Roy Wilkins, I believe that "if America's blacks
are permitted to do for themselves, according to their own likes, they will do
like nobody ever dreamed."
Thank you very much.
904
