February 13
[91]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
and gas supplies will continue to dissipate and imports will grow, unless we take
immediate steps to reduce consumption and develop new supplies.
Congressional action is imperative if the United States is to maintain its
international leadership. We cannot expect other nations to tighten their belts
if we are unprepared to do the same ourselves. We cannot appear unwilling to
take the unpleasant but necessary steps to cure our energy and economic prob-
lems when other nations are trying to face up to their own difficulties. Oil-
consuming nations must unite. The surplus of Arab dollars is creating, we all
know, a financial crisis in Western Europe. Concerted action is essential.
The Administration has offered the first comprehensive, integrated solution
to our energy problems ever assembled. If we do not act now on the short-term
goals, there will be unacceptable costs to the United States, both domestically
and internationally.
You may wonder why I am calling for nonpartisanship in foreign affairs at a
Republican Party dinner. Why didn't I make this speech before a Democratic
Party dinner? Well, for one thing, I haven't been invited to any Democratic
Lincoln Day dinners. For another, the tribute to Nelson Rockefeller is more than
a partisan tribute, just as his confirmation as Vice President by an overwhelm-
ing majority of the last Democratic Congress was more than a partisan confirma-
tion. In his own early career of public service is a good example of the non-
partisan tradition that goes back to the war years of President Franklin D.
Roosevelt.
But most of all, I use this Republican forum for this appeal because I am proud,
as you can be proud, of our party's contributions, both in the Congress and in the
White House, in and out of power through 30 years of constructive continuity in
American foreign policy.
I renew my offer to consult with the Members of the Congress on a further
orderly phaseout of our military assistance in Southeast Asia on a basis which
honors our repeated promises to allies that we will help to supply those willing to
fight for their own freedom. I do not see how we can renege or compromise that
principle. I do not intend to do so.
And I am also willing, as was President Truman, to bring the responsible
leaders of the Democratic majority in the Congress in on the foreign policy take-
offs as well as landings, particularly the crash landings. I have already done so,
and will continue to expand these two-way consultations.
Let me repeat what Senator Vandenberg told his Republican friends about
President Truman and the Republican 80th Congress: "He is the only President
we shall have and this is the only Congress we shall have during the next critical
255
