March 18
[139]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
and myself with the Members of Congress on the respective committees—will
result in an approach that is comparable to mine, because I think the Congress
will pass that.
I have very grave doubts that the Congress would pass a gasoline tax. And
certainly my feeling in that regard was reaffirmed by 102 Democrats putting
their name on the line saying they would not vote for one. And I think there is
a better way to do it, and we are going to work with the chairman of the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means, hoping to find an answer that is more like the
approach that I have recommended.
Q. To follow that up, you did say a gasoline tax of the magnitude that is
being proposed by some. I seem to note a shift in your position there. Now,
Mr. Ullman has come down from 40 cents to possibly 25 cents. If he were to
come down a little further, would you be willing to talk about maybe a 20
cent tax?
The President. I read a news report a few minutes ago which said that the
bill that he had introduced included a gas tax up to 37 cents over a 3- or 4-year
span. I don't think that is the right approach, and I don't think it is feasible in
trying to get the Congress to act. Therefore, I go back to a program that we
proposed which I think will be the answer, which I think the Congress
eventually will buy substantially.
I am very happy that we are negotiating. We are trying to find an answer
with Mr. Ullman, the chairman of the Committee on Ways and Means, and I am
encouraged by what I understand is the progress that is being made.
MR. CORMIER. Thank you, Mr. President.
The President. Thank you, Mr. Cormier. Thank you all very much.
NOTE: President Ford's eleventh news conference
began at 6:03 p.m. in the auditorium at the
Center for Continuing Education at the University
of Notre Dame, South Bend, Ind.
139
Message to the Congress Transmitting Reports on the Military
Incentive Awards Program. March 18, 1975
To the Congress of the United States:
Forwarded herewith in accordance with the provisions of 10 U.S.C. 1124 are
reports of the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Transportation on
awards made during Fiscal Year 1974 to members of the Armed Forces for sug-
gestions, inventions and scientific achievements.
371
