April 4
[169]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Governors, where I asked Governor Brown to join me in cutting California's
share of that redtape. I think I got a firm promise.
Geothermal power discoveries in other parts of the West could be a major
breakthrough, whether it is in New Mexico, Nevada, or other places in our race
for energy independence.
But let me turn, if I might, to a somewhat different subject. A criticism I made
of the tax reduction bill, which I signed last Saturday, was that it failed to give
adequate relief to the millions and millions of middle-income taxpayers who
contribute the biggest share by far of Federal taxes.
Most people do not understand the significant portion of our total tax pay-
ments from individuals comes from the middle-income group—schoolteachers,
firemen, policemen, professional people, working people, construction, produc-
tion line people in unions and otherwise.
These are the people that pay the most in Federal personal income taxes. It
was my fear then, and it is tonight, that if we don't give some recognition
to their contribution, that their initiative will be punished and the lack of
initiative rewarded.
If an emerging philosophy of taxation will develop, known as income redistri-
bution, will prevail, frankly, it is my judgment if this does happen-penalizing
the middle-income group and redistributing their initiative to those that are not
in that category—it could very well take the freedom out of the free enter-
prise system.
What incentive, for example, will remain for upward bound people to
improve their status if they are assessed an undue proportion of Federal taxes?
We must, of course, help those least able to help themselves. But I cannot
conceive of an America in which half the Nation produces nothing and the other
half is expected to provide a free ride. Yet, that is the inevitable result by the year
2000--not too far away, just a quarter of a century-if we continue the present
pace of escalating social spending. It is my strong conviction that we must put
a curb on these transfer payments, or what the technicians call income supple-
ments. I think we have to do it now.
I will never forget, if I might digress a moment, over the 25 years that I had
the privilege of serving in the House of Representatives—and it was a great
privilege of sitting and listening to the debate when strong, well-motivated
Members of the House of Representatives would get up and argue effectively
and convincingly and certainly in the highest motivation for this social program
or that social program. Pretty soon, we started to have this proliferation, and
433
