April 4
[169]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
a few views and say a few words to all of you this evening. For that, I am
deeply grateful.
I have done a little studying about the Area Council, and I found that for
the last 30 years, you have been leaders in preserving the economic, social, civic,
environmental integrity of this great area of the State of California. And the
outstanding success of your efforts can be applauded by both resident and visitor
alike, and as a visitor, I certainly do.
On behalf of all of you, I thank you most sincerely for the generation of
achievement. Frankly, it never takes very much persuading to get me to come
to the Bay Area, a region of infinite charm and boundless beauty.
If I might reminisce a bit about two experiences that I will never forget.
Forty years ago—January 1, 1935—I was honored among a good many others
to play the Shrine East-West football game out here in Kezar Stadium. As a
matter of fact, I played 58 minutes because we did not have any other center.
[Laughter]
But nevertheless, I will never forget coming in on the train from Chicago,
getting ready for the game. And we pulled up on the dock over here—I guess
it was Oakland or someplace, I can't remember. [Laughter]
I was 21 years of age and had not been out of Michigan very much. We took
the ferry boat across the bay, and now you have got a great Bay Area transporta-
tion system that, I suspect, the people who come out here in the future, as I did,
won't have to take that ferryboat like I did.
But I think the experience of coming to a great metropolitan area for a young,
very unsophisticated senior of Michigan left an indelible impression on me.
Then, in 1945-roughly 10 years later—I came back from overseas, as many
in this audience did, in the Pacific, and I had the privilege of being in this area
for roughly 3 months on the way to getting back to civilian life. And the experi-
ences that I had, the friends that I made during that period of time, also wrote
an indelible impression on me, and I thank all of you and those that preceded
you for what you have done in trying to make, at least myself, a broader person.
And I am deeply grateful.
Obviously, you can tell it is a delight for me to be in the San Francisco Bay
Area. It is a city that glistens in sunlight and sparkles at night; where life has
style and style has life. Even the commonplace becomes an adventure.
All I can say is, if Tony Bennett ever wants his heart back, I have got one to
replace it. [Laughter]
When I was talking to Gene and Tom¹ up here, and I am sure all of you
¹ Eugene E. Trefethen, Jr., chairman, and A. W. Clausen, past chairman of the council.
431
