March 19
[143]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
as near-term health of the economy, we simply must curb the rate of increase
in the budget that has occurred in recent years.
My 1976 budget recommendations include no new spending initiatives, except
for energy. In addition, they reflect proposals that would reduce outlays by $17
billion, including $6.1 billion in savings that would result from enactment of
the enclosed draft bills. A table is attached providing a breakdown of this figure
and the programs involved. Without the economy measures I am recommend-
ing, increases in Federal spending would be sharper in the short run and would
continue unchecked in future years. The budget deficit for the coming fiscal
year would also be greatly increased.
In proposing a 5 percent ceiling on Federal pay raises this year, I am asking
that the Federal Government set an example for the Nation. Federal workers
generally enjoy greater job security than other workers. I believe that most
Federal employees will understand that some restraint on their pay raises is
appropriate in light of the need to provide benefits and create more jobs for the
unemployed.
I urge the private sector-labor and management alike—to follow this exam-
ple and minimize wage and price increases.
The proposals place a similar temporary limit of 5 percent on the automatic
increases in benefit programs linked to consumer prices. These proposals bear
in mind the large increases that have occurred in these programs in recent
years—increases which have exceeded the rate of inflation. Total benefit pay-
ments under the programs involved—primarily Federal civilian and military
retirement, social security, railroad retirement, supplemental security income,
and the food stamp and child nutrition programs—have risen more than the
cost of living. For example, average per capita payments for persons receiving
social security benefits have increased by 22 percent in real terms since 1970—
that is, after adjusting for increases in consumer prices.
The enclosed proposals would not eliminate or reduce any benefit payments
from their present levels, but would merely slow down, through June 30, 1976,
the rate at which these payments would be rising. Their enactment would help
us begin to gain some control over the longer-run growth in the Federal budget.
This is because, in general, the lowered levels of benefit increases that would be
in effect through fiscal year 1976 would not be made up subsequently.
I recognize that I am asking the Congress to make some difficult decisions in
acting on these proposals. But that is what I must do. During this time when
thousands of workers are being laid off and we are still experiencing consider-
able inflationary pressure, I believe the modest restraint that I am proposing on
377
