March 17
[138]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
eliminate difficulties between ourselves and our adversaries. And it seemed to
me if that could be restated, we could work out the details within that concept
and not reinflame the differences and difficulties that existed while U.S. troops
were stationed and fighting in South Vietnam.
Q. Let me follow that up. If you had made a strong plea today for military
aid for Cambodia and South Vietnam, do you think it would have been well
received by the student audience?
THE PRESIDENT. Since I did not consider that as a part of my remarks, I
really did not consider the hypothetical question you are asking me.
ILLINOIS REPUBLICAN PARTY
[7.] Q. Mr. President, the Republican candidate for mayor of Chicago, Mr.
John Hoellen, has stated over the weekend that he was either snubbed or given
very short shrift by you at the White House. The Cook County Republican
committee is in a state of chaos, and the Republican committee in Illinois is not
much better off. What are you going to do for Mr. Hoellen, and what are you
going to do for the Republican Party in Illinois in order to win it in 1976?
THE PRESIDENT. I seldom interject myself into local partisan elections. I do
believe, however, that the President ought to be as helpful as he can in a state-
wide, partisan way at the proper time.
I do believe that the State organization in Illinois is rebuilding and getting
ready for the State and national elections in 1976. I consult with Senator Percy.
I consult with the Illinois Republican delegation. And I think in that way I
can be a participant in making the Republican Party in Illinois a viable political
party in the very important elections of 1976.
Q. Are you going to have Donald Rumsfeld to assess the situation? It has been
reported that you would.
THE PRESIDENT. Don Rumsfeld made a speech in Illinois Friday night, and
I have not had an opportunity to discuss with him his observations based on that
speech, but I do intend to, probably tomorrow or the next day. I have a great
deal of faith in Don's understanding of the problems in Illinois and a great
deal of faith in his judgment as to how I and we can help in that regard.
U.S. MONEY SUPPLY
[8.] Q. Mr. President, at a time when you say you are trying to end the
recession, the money supply in the United States has not increased hardly at
all. In the last 6 months of 1974, the money supply grew by less than 1 percent,
and in November, December, and January it actually showed a decrease, one of
365
