[166]
April 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
fight for their freedom-which I think they are anxious to do if given an honest
opportunity-then there was not a sacrifice that was inappropriate or unwise.
FOREIGN POLICY
[15.] Q. Good afternoon, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Good afternoon.
Q. In a speech you are going to deliver here in San Diego this afternoon, you
warn against fatalism, despair, and the prophets of doom. And yet, as I look back
over the past 8 months or a year—and I don't mean to suggest that these are in
any way your responsibility or fault-I have a laundry list which cites Portugal as
having a leftist government, raising serious questions about its future in NATO;
Greece and Turkey are at each other's throats, threatening the southern flanks
of that alliance; we are familiar that Secretary Kissinger's mission failed in his
peace talks with Egypt and Israel; and we don't need to rehash the situation in
Cambodia and South Vietnam.
That being the case, sir, how can you say that the world outlook—and par-
ticularly as you address it in your speech next week on the state of the world-
is anything but bleak for the United States, when many of the minuses which I
cited are actually pluses for the Soviets?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the speech that I am giving to Congress and to the
American people next week will deal with many of the problems that you have
raised. I think we do face a crisis. But I am optimistic that if the Congress joins
with me, and the American people support the Congress and me, as President,
we can overcome those difficulties.
We can play a constructive role in Portugal, not interfering with their internal
decisions—but Portugal is an important ally in Western Europe.
We can find ways to solve the problem in Cyprus and, hopefully, keep both
Greece and Turkey strong and viable members of NATO.
We can, despite the difficulties that transpired in the Middle East in the last
several weeks, find a way to keep a peace movement moving in that very volatile
area.
It may mean and probably does—that we will have to take the problem to
Geneva. I would have preferred it otherwise. But the facts are that if Congress
and the American people and the President work together—as I expect they
will-then, in my judgment, those disappointments can become pluses.
2
Q. But, sir, can you cite any specific reasons for the optimism you express?
THE PRESIDENT. The historical character of the American people-that is the
See Item 167.
422
