[171]
April 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
only on overall expenditures and deficits but also on spending in each major
program area.
Now, an overall limit is too easily ignored by a committee or by a subcom-
mittee. They act with the best of intentions on the area of their particular
responsibility, and they vote one program after another, one bill after another.
What we need, I think, is what I mentioned earlier—their budget committees
to force all committees and all subcommittees to act within a framework of a
self-determined spending limitation, one within the guidelines that I proposed.
Far too many areas of our national life have been infected by an “us against
them” mentality. It is not business versus consumer, rich against poor, black
versus white, or America versus the world.
We are one Nation, indivisible—economically and socially. The solutions
we find to our economic problems must be based on unity, not on division.
One of the most corrosive concepts to receive popular attention in the past
decade is business as the villain. This has produced numerous unfortunate
consequences, not the least of which is growing government overregulation
of many, many industries.
You know firsthand-[laughter]-how government regulations can stifle
economic growth and in many, many instances, creativity. A complex society
obviously requires some limited controls, but the proliferation of regulations
has strangled far too many of our enterprises in recent years in America.
We must reexamine our laws for their applicability and our precepts for
their validity in the light of changing times.
Periods of crisis, I think history tells us, can be creative, because they force
us to look at new problems in new ways. We are in such a period today, both
at home and abroad.
I am now working on and in the process of preparing a full report on interna-
tional policy which will be presented by me to a joint session of the Congress
this Thursday.
I will not go into the details today, obviously, but I will certainly put high
on my agenda a firm American commitment to provide humanitarian aid to
the helpless civilian victims, including orphaned children, of the war in
Vietnam.
Now or in the future-let me say this with emphasis―let no potential enemy
of the United States be so unwise to wrongly assess the American mood and
conclude that the time has come when it is safe to challenge us.
May I say just as strongly, with as much emphasis, let no ally or friend fear
that our commitments will not be honored.
446
