[381]
July 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
to meet with you and discuss with you the many issues that concern both of our
nations. And I have found today, in our discussions, that your observations con-
cerning Southeast Asia and the Pacific have been extremely meaningful and
very constructive. I hope that this exchange of views will be mutually beneficial
to both countries as we face our problems in the years ahead.
We do attach, in the United States, a great deal of importance to our rela-
tions with you. You have been a source of strength in Southeast Asia and in
Asia as a whole, and we respect you for this part that you have played in the
area, as well as the leadership that you have given to your own country in the
process of development in the last 5 to 10 years.
We look forward to the opportunity of working with you in the future.
The fact that we had a recent tragedy in Indochina actually should redouble,
and does, our interest in the stability of Southeast Asia. Your assessment there,
as I indicated, is most helpful to us as we plan and look to the future.
Let me say that the American people have great respect for your people, as
we do for you and those in your Government. I was delighted this morning
to reaffirm our Nation's solid support for Indonesia's development efforts, and
we look forward to working with you in economic matters and the strengthen-
ing of your country in its major role in Southeast Asia.
Mr. President, in the months and years ahead, it seems to me that your
country can provide continuing leadership in that part of the world, working
with other nations that have a like philosophical, ideological view. Let me assure
you that we will be most anxious to work with you and those other nations.
Today has been most enjoyable, most pleasant, and, I think, most construc-
tive. I hope that you will return to the United States very soon and for a much
longer and more extended visit to the United States.
It is a pleasure for me to ask all of you to raise your glasses to the good health
and sustained success of the leader of Indonesia-His Excellency, President
Suharto.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3 p.m. at Laurel Lodge,
Camp David, Md.
President Suharto responded in Indonesian. His
remarks were translated by an interpreter as follows:
Mr. President, Excellencies, distinguished guests:
May I first of all convey our highest appreciation
and heartfelt thanks on behalf of my wife as well as
my delegation for the opportunity given me to
accept the kind invitation of you, Mr. President, to
be here in the United States. And may I also, on
behalf of the Indonesian people and Government,
convey their profound gratitude for this opportunity
provided us.
As part of the nature of this very short visit-
I'd say, only for several hours-but I would like very
much to take this valuable opportunity, an oppor-
tunity which is very valuable for us, to enable us to
be able to conduct exchanges of views in our com-
mon efforts and in the discharge of my duty to
further strengthen these relations and friendly co-
operation between the United States and Indonesia,
and also to have the opportunity to discuss with you,
934
