[91]
February 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
two years; the quicker we reach a working relationship so that we can have a
united policy, the safer our country will be."
Yesterday, I stood at the Lincoln Memorial. I saw at the far end of the Mall the
great white dome of the Capitol, my home for almost 25 years. I was reminded
of the difficulties President James Polk encountered from a young freshman
Congressman from Illinois, who denounced the United States' involvement in
the Mexican War as having been unnecessarily and unconstitutionally begun by
the President without Congressional consent. And I remembered also how that
defeated one-termer, when he returned to Washington as President of a rapidly
disintegrating nation, took emergency measures which were similarly denounced
on Capitol Hill as unconstitutional and dictatorial.
When the Congress attempted to run the war by committee, President Lin-
coln told them bluntly that the ship of state can have only one helmsman. And
he said in his first annual message to the Congress, and I quote: In a storm at
sea no one on board can wish the ship to sink, and yet not infrequently, all go
down together because too many will direct and no single mind will be allowed
to control.
As once again we honor Abraham Lincoln as the greatest President of our
party that was given to the Republic, let us rededicate ourselves to the broader
vision of the national good which he brought from the Capitol to the White
House. Let us continue as Americans to seek his noble goals of a just and lasting
peace among ourselves and with all nations.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:47 p.m. in the main ballroom at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel.
92
Memorandum Outlining Responsibilities of the Domestic
Council. February 13, 1975
Memorandum for: The Vice President, The Secretary of the Treasury, The
Attorney General, The Secretary of the Interior, The Secretary of Agricul-
ture, The Secretary of Commerce, The Secretary of Labor, The Secretary
of Health, Education, and Welfare, The Secretary of Housing and Urban
Development, The Secretary of Transportation, The Director, Office of
Management and Budget, The Chairman of the Council of Economic Ad-
visers, The Chairman, Council on Environmental Quality, The Adminis-
trator of the Environmental Protection Agency, The Administrator of
256
