[105]
February 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
must look, as they did, to the future. We must ask ourselves what will we leave
to the next generation? What will America be in another 200 years?
I concede it is almost beyond our ability to foresee. Jefferson, Franklin,
Washington, and others could not know what their efforts would produce;
neither can we. But we can act to honor our highest obligation, to leave the
Nation free and secure, as it has been passed down to us.
Each generation has been called on to accept the challenge of a different
crisis, and each generation has lived up to its responsibility.
In 1812, our young Nation faced its first war-another struggle with Britain.
The Capitol and the White House were burned, and President James Madison
and his wife, Dolley, fled the city. But the fledgling Nation pulled itself
together and survived. The Capitol and the White House were rebuilt. The
country continued to grow. Those Americans did not fail us.
When the debate over slavery and union erupted into war, Americans fought
Americans, but the end of the war brought renewal, and the task of settling the
continent went on. Those Americans did not fail us.
When a great crisis of spirit caused by the Depression struck the Nation,
millions of Americans living today did not fail us. They pulled themselves
together and kept the Nation going.
In two World Wars, Americans gave their time, talent, resources, yes, and
many their lives, to keep the cause of freedom alive. They did not fail us.
In unhappy times and unpopular wars, Americans accept the challenge. No
generation of Americans has failed to accept the necessary sacrifices of the day.
I am convinced we will not fail ourselves or future generations.
Today, we face new challenges—our economic and energy problems. New
perceptions, yes, and new priorities are required to meet new difficulties.
We are engaged in a great national debate on how to solve economic and
energy problems of very serious proportions. Solutions will require the same
hard work and tenacity required to wage a successful revolution, establish a
working government, carve a civilization out of the wilderness, produce the
greatest industrial machine ever developed, and to also produce the highest
standard of living of any nation in the world.
In another 200 years, in 2175, Americans will prepare to celebrate the Nation's
400th birthday. We must act now so that they can say of us: "Americans in the
1970's did not fail us."
We can remember the past with flags and parades and fireworks as Adams
envisioned in the first summer of our independence, but to honor the past, we
276
