[3]
January 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
3
Memorandum of Disapproval of a Nurse Training Bill.
January 3, 1975
[Dated January 2, 1975. Released January 3, 1975]
I HAVE withheld my approval from H.R. 17085, a bill that would amend
Title VIII of the Public Health Service Act to provide support for the training
of nurses.
This measure would authorize excessive appropriations levels―more than
$650 million over the three fiscal years covered by the bill. Such high Federal
spending for nursing education would be intolerable at a time when even high
priority activities are being pressed to justify their existence.
I believe nurses have played and will continue to play an invaluable role in
the delivery of health services. The Federal taxpayer can and should selectively
assist nursing schools to achieve educational reforms and innovations in support
of that objective. The Administration's 1976 budget request will include funds
for this purpose. Furthermore, I intend to urge the 94th Congress to enact
comprehensive health personnel training legislation that will permit support
of nurse training initiatives to meet the new problems of the 1970's.
This act inappropriately proposes large amounts of student and construction
support for schools of nursing. Without any additional Federal stimulation, we
expect that the number of active duty registered nurses will increase by over 50
percent during this decade.
Such an increase suggests that our incentives for expansion have been
successful, and that continuation of the current Federal program is likely to be
of less benefit to the Nation than using these scarce resources in other ways.
One result of this expansion has been scattered but persistent reports of regis-
tered nurse unemployment, particularly among graduates of associate degree
training programs.
Today's very different outlook is not reflected in this bill. We must concen-
trate Federal efforts on the shortage of certain nurse specialists, and persistent
geographic maldistribution. However, this proposal would allocate less than
one-third of its total authorization to these problems. Moreover, it fails to come
to grips with the problem of geographic maldistribution.
Support for innovative projects-involving the health professions, nursing,
allied health, and public health-should be contained in a single piece of legis-
lation to assure that decisions made in one sector relate to decisions made in
4
