June 12
[324]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
323
Memorandum to Attorney General Levi on the Report of the
Commission on CIA Activities Within the United States.
June 12, 1975
[Dated June 11, 1975. Released June 12, 1975]
Memorandum for the Attorney General
The Commission on CIA Activities Within the United States has presented
its final report to me. Transmitted herewith is a copy of the report.
Under Executive Order 11828, the Commission is required to furnish to the
Attorney General any evidence found by it which may relate to offenses under
the statutes of the United States. Vice President Rockefeller has advised me that
the Commission desires that the Department of Justice examine all materials
collected by the Commission to make this determination. Such materials include
information relating to allegations that the CIA has been involved in plans to
assassinate certain leaders of foreign countries.
In addition to the materials accumulated by the Commission, there are rele-
vant materials on these subjects in the files of the National Security Council
and certain State Department and Defense Department files of similar relevance.
All of these materials are now available for your investigation through Philip
Buchen, Counsel to the President.
I hereby request that you review all of these materials as soon as possible
and take such action as you deem warranted as a result of your investigation.
GERALD R. FORD
324
Memorandum on the Report of the Commission on CIA Activities
Within the United States. June 12, 1975
[Dated June 11, 1975. Released June 12, 1975]
Memorandum for the Secretary of State, the Secretary of the Treasury, the Sec-
retary of Defense, the Attorney General, the Director of Central Intelligence
Subject: Report of the Commission on Central Intelligence Activities Within
the United States
On January 4, 1975, I established a Commission on Central Intelligence
Activities Within the United States to determine whether any domestic activities
of the CIA exceeded the Agency's statutory authority. The Commission has
809
