[137]
March 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
million to 800 million people suffer from malnutrition, where average per
capita income is under $275 per year, where life expectancy is 20 years less than in
the developed countries, where more than 40 percent of the children will never
reach the age of five, where more than half of the population has never been
to school.
Despite these problems, the economies of the developing countries have
grown at an encouraging rate in the past 10 years, thanks in part-I think sub-
stantial part—to American assistance. Manufacturing output increased 100 per-
cent, food production by over one-third. Enrollment in elementary schools
doubled. Enrollment in secondary schools and colleges quadrupled.
But population growth and increased demand collided with inflation and
energy shortages. Gains in many, many instances have been wiped out. At the
very time when our policy seeks to build peace with nations of different
philosophies, there remains too much violence and too much threat to peace.
The Congress defined the role of foreign aid this way, and I quote from the
legislation itself: "The freedom, security, and prosperity of the United States
are best sustained in a community of free, secure, and prospering nations. . .
Ignorance, want, and despair breed the extremism and violence which lead to
aggression and subversion."
Those words, written by the Congress, I think are so accurate. If nations are
to develop within this definition, they must be able to defend themselves. They
must have assurances that America can be counted on to provide the means of
security, their own security, as well as the means of sustenance. People with an
affirmative vision of the future will not resort to violence. While we pursue a
peaceful world in which there is unity in diversity, we must continue to support
security against aggression and subversion. To do otherwise, in my judgment,
would invite greater violence.
The United States, in this day and age, cannot avoid partnership with na-
tions trying to improve the kind of world the children of today will face tomor-
row. Recent events have demonstrated the total interdependence of all people
who live on this planet.
The 1973 war in the Middle East showed that war confined to a limited region
nevertheless has an economic impact, not only in South Bend but in every corner
of the world. Developing and developed countries are all part of a single, inter-
dependent economic system.
This audience, I am told, and this student body includes many students from
over 60 foreign countries. And I congratulate you, Father Hesburgh. Let this
demonstrate to all Americans that other people place a high valuation on what
356
