[396]
July 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
constant struggle to reduce the rate of inflation in the months ahead, and I
think we will be successful.
Secondly, in the economic field we are concerned about the rate of unemploy-
ment. We don't believe that an 8-percent or 9-percent rate of unemployment
is acceptable. We are tailoring our domestic economic plans on reducing the
rate of unemployment, and I believe that in the months ahead, you will see a
moderation and certainly a decline in the next 6 to 12 months.
I am encouraged—and I think this is a good sign—that despite the rate of
unemployment, in the last 2 months the actual number of people employed
in the United States has gone up by roughly 450,000. I think that is an accom-
plishment, bearing in mind the overall economic circumstances.
In addition, we have taken some other steps aimed at making the United
States energy self-sufficient and less vulnerable to foreign oil imports. In addi-
tion, we have promoted what I think is very important—some constructive steps
to deregulate the American economy, getting rid of those regulations that are
no longer needed and necessary. And progress in this area, I think, will be more
significant in the months ahead.
When I look at the overall, concerning the problems we had on our doorstep
when I took office last August, I think whether it is in foreign policy, where we
have strengthened our relationship with the NATO countries, handled our dis-
engagement in Indochina, took forceful action in the Mayaguez case, or whether
you look at the overall domestically, in my judgment, considerable progress has
been made.
Q. What do you consider your major failings?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I will leave that to my opponents. [Laughter] I don't
think there have been many.
LEBANESE TERRORISTS' HOSTAGE
[7.] Q. Mr. President, can you tell us what was negotiated in order to obtain
the release of Colonel Morgan?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, our representatives in Lebanon worked very closely
with the Government of Lebanon and with other elements in order to make
sure that Colonel Morgan was returned. We have a policy—and I think it is the
right policy—that we will not as a government pay ransom, and as far as I
know, it was not done in this case by our Government. But by working closely
and firmly with all parties, we were, thank goodness, able to return Colonel
Morgan safely.
970
