July 3
[376]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
together we can bring forth rich, new harvests from this great land of oppor-
tunity. We can invite all Americans, whatever their race, sex, or station in life,
to sit at the table of America's bounty and partake more fully of its great
abundance.
I truly see America's future as bright with hope and promise. I see a nation
that works.
I see people taking pride in their work and their lives. I see a national gov-
ernment that responds to people's needs, but does not order people's lives. And
don't forget that a government big enough to give you everything you want
is a government big enough to take from you everything you have.
I see a reemergence of old values, values like simple honesty and common de-
cency, as new natural resources with which to build a nobler, safer, and more
successful society.
There is no reason, as I see it, in the world today why we can't live the kind
of a life we want: a life of optimism and faith, a life of close kinship and good
relations with our neighbors, a life with room for joy, a life of peace with our-
selves and with those about us.
I believe and, as I look around this great room tonight, I think you believe,
in America. I believe in the American people, as you do, and I believe that as
we start our third century of independence, we can take renewed confidence in
our future, a future that calls us-every one of us—to new achievement and
glory and greatness.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:52 p.m. in the Grand
Ballroom at the Cleveland Sheraton Hotel. In his
opening remarks, he referred to John Dwyer, chair-
man of the Cuyahoga County Republican Executive
Committee, and Ray Bliss, former national chairman
of the Republican Party.
376
Letter Accepting the Resignation of Secretary of the Army
Howard H. Callaway. July 3, 1975
Dear Bo:
It is with a very special sense of regret but also with profound appreciation
for your outstanding service to our Nation, that I accept your resignation as
Secretary of the Army, effective July 3, 1975.
For more than two years, your leadership has moved the Army forward with
most impressive results. Through your efforts, an all volunteer Army has be-
925
