March 4
[121]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
I requested a comprehensive program of legislative action against recession,
inflation and energy dependence. I asked the Congress to act in 90 days.
In that context, I also used the stand-by authority the Congress had provided
to apply an additional dollar-a-barrel import fee on most foreign oil coming
into the United States, starting February 1 and increasing in March and April.
I wanted an immediate first step toward energy conservation—the only step
so far to reduce oil imports and the loss of American dollars. I also wanted to
prompt action by Congress on the broad program I requested.
The Congress initially responded by adopting H.R. 1767 to take away
Presidential authority to impose import fees on foreign oil for 90 days.
Although I am vetoing H.R. 1767 for the reasons stated, I meant what I said
about cooperation and compromise. The Congress now pledges action. I offer
the Congress reasonable time for such action. I want to avoid a futile con-
frontation which helps neither unemployed nor employed Americans.
The most important business before us after 50 days of debate remains the
simple but substantial tax refund I requested for individuals and job-creating
credits to farmers and businessmen. This economic stimulant is essential.
Last Friday, the majority leaders of the Senate and House asked me to delay
scheduled increases in the import fees on foreign oil for 60 days while they work
out the specifics of an energy policy they have jointly produced. Their policy
blueprint differs considerably from my energy program as well as from the
energy legislation now being considered by the House Committee on Ways and
Means.
I welcome such initiative in the Congress and agree to a deferral until May 1,
1975. The important thing is that the Congress is finally moving on our urgent
national energy problem. I am, therefore, amending my proclamation to post-
pone the effect of the scheduled increases for two months while holding firm
to the principles I have stated. It is also my intention not to submit a plan for
decontrol of old domestic oil before May 1.
I hope the House and Senate will have agreed to a workable and compre-
hensive national energy legislation.
But we must use every day of those two months to develop and adopt an
energy program. Also, I seek a legislative climate for immediate action on the
tax reductions I have requested. It is my fervent wish that we can now move
from points of conflict to areas of agreement.
I will do nothing to delay the speedy enactment by the Congress of straight-
forward income tax cuts and credits by the end of this month.
Under present conditions, any delay in rebating dollars to consumers and
315
