February 11
[85]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Q. If I could follow up on that just a second. There is still going to be a time
lag, though, on the increased operation cost. Is there something you are going
to do to help them out on that?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. We discussed that with several of the Governors, both
in Houston as well as here today, and Mr. Frank Zarb, the head of the Federal
Energy Administration, has promised that there will be some beneficial relief
given to American agriculture under my energy proposals.
DEFENSE AND DOMESTIC PROGRAMS
[10.] Q. Mr. President, I am Dennis Farney with the Wall Street Journal.
You have been talking in terms of wanting to compromise with the Democratic
Congress, and yet your major proposals have been quite provocative. You want
to increase Pentagon spending and cut back on spending for some popular
domestic programs, which is about the opposite of what the Democrats want to
do. Aren't you really picking a fight with Congress and preparing the way for a
possible campaign against Congress in 1976?
THE PRESIDENT. I can't believe that the majority of Democrats in the House
and Senate are going to weaken our national defense program by gutting the
requested appropriations for the Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marines.
The Democrats that I know in the Congress are just as dedicated to a strong
national security program as I am, so I don't think this Democratic Congress will
undercut our national security efforts. They will make some changes, but I don't
think I certainly hope they won't gut the Defense Department.
Now, I have made some recommendations to cap, not to cut back, programs
aimed at helping people. As a matter of fact, in the budget that I submitted, the
Defense Department gets only 27 percent. The domestic programs that you
mention get about 44 or 45 percent of the total expenditures out of the Federal
Government.
So, I think we have come to a pretty good balance. And I think the Democrats,
when they look at the budget for fiscal 1976, will realize that there is a good
balance. And I think they will go along to a far greater degree than what might
appear to be the case at the present time.
ENERGY PROGRAM
[11.] Q. Mr. President, just how much headway do you consider you have
made for your energy proposals with the Governors in the three regional meet-
ings you have had with them so far? *
The President met with Governors of the Northeastern States at the White House on January 23, 1975,
(Item 42), the Southeastern States in Atlanta, Ga., on February 3, and the Midwestern States in Topeka,
Kans., on February 11.
227
