May 6
[241]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
According to the story, George said, "Five cents." And the neighbor asked him,
"Well, if I can buy the Saturday Evening Post for 5 cents, why should I buy
your newspaper?" Well, I have researched it very, very extensively and have
found that's the only time in George's career he didn't have a good answer.
[Laughter]
But you know George. During this period of time that I have known him,
he served as Secretary of Labor, he served as Director of the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget, he served as the Secretary of the Treasury. And then I found
that at one time, he served as Adviser to the Cabinet on agricultural matters.
Adviser to the Cabinet on agricultural matters-doesn't that bring back to your
mind the memorable statement he made a year or two ago, when he told
Laird to keep his cotton-picking hands off the economy? [Laughter]
Well, I am just honored to be here as a friend of George's, as an admirer. I
think he represents the finest kind of service to the Government, the finest kind
of dedication to the country. And, Bill, in giving to George Shultz the Alexander
Hamilton Award, I think you reflect the view that all of us have in George
Shultz as the epitome of what we would all like a person in government service
to have.
Most of all, George, I am delighted to be here as a friend. And may I say this
in a personal way: Any person who likes to play golf and any person who
smokes a pipe and any person who played football just can't be all bad.
[Laughter]
NOTE: The President spoke at 6:10 p.m. in Room
4121 at the Treasury Department. Following his re-
marks, Secretary of the Treasury William E. Simon
presented Mr. Shultz with the Alexander Hamilton
Award in recognition of his outstanding and unusual
leadership in the work of the Treasury. A portrait
of Mr. Shultz was also unveiled at the ceremony.
In his remarks, the President referred to Mr.
Shultz' wife, Obie, and Melvin R. Laird, Counsellor
to the President 1973-74.
241
Message to the Congress Transmitting Report on United States
Laws and Regulations Governing Nuclear Exports and
Safeguards. May 6, 1975
To the Congress of the United States:
In accordance with Section 14 of Public Law 93-500, the "Export Adminis-
tration Amendments of 1974", I am forwarding to the Congress a report on
U.S. laws and regulations governing nuclear exports and on domestic and inter-
national safeguards. This report considers the effectiveness of such laws and
639
