May 3
[236]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
236
Remarks at the U.S.S. Nimitz Commissioning Ceremony in
Norfolk, Virginia. May 3, 1975
Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Distinguished Members of the Congress,
Secretary Middendorf, Admiral Holloway, Admiral Cousins, Captain Compton,
Mrs. Lay, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
At the outset, let me thank the Secretary of Defense for his more than
generous comments, and let me simply reiterate the theme that he set forth.
We are strong, we will continue to be strong, we will keep our commitments,
and we will remain a great country.
As each of us looks upon this great ship, a single thought must seize our
minds: Only the United States of America can make a machine like this. There
is nothing like her in the world today. We have witnessed the magic moment
when an intricate mass of steel and cable and sophisticated marvels of engi-
neering suddenly become a living thing with a unique personality.
No matter how many commissionings you take part in, breaking the pen-
nant and setting the first watch involves a special reward for all of us who love
the sea and the United States Navy. I thank you very much, Captain Compton,
and all of the ship's company for the privilege of being here.
The Nimitz is now a United States Ship. I congratulate all who helped
build her and all who man her, as well as their loved ones who-as many of you
know better than I will do a lot of waiting for the sake of our country and
of freedom everywhere. Their allegiance and their service to the country is
also in the very best tradition of this great Nation.
We all regret that Mrs. Chester W. Nimitz, Sr., cannot share this proud hour
with all of us, but I am happy that Mrs. Lay and other members of the admiral's
family are here. It is also gratifying to have Admiral Rickover here, for without
these two farsighted submariners, Fleet Admiral Nimitz and Admiral Rickover,
we would have no nuclear Navy.
Few of us remember that it was Admiral Nimitz, as he was completing his
career as Chief of Naval Operations in 1947, who recommended to the then
Secretary of the Navy that the Bureau of Ships and the new Atomic Energy
Commission get together to design and to build a nuclear propulsion plant for
a submarine. Admiral Rickover took it from there.
I see this great ship as a double symbol of today's challenging times. She is
first of all a symbol of the United States, of our immense resources in materials
631
