[28]
January 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
balance. Even the United States, our country, which is far more self-sufficient
than most other industrial countries, has been put under serious pressure.
I am proposing a program which will begin to restore our country's surplus
capacity in total energy. In this way, we will be able to assure ourselves reliable
and adequate energy and help foster a new world energy stability for other
major consuming nations.
But this Nation and, in fact, the world must face the prospect of energy
difficulties between now and 1985. This program will impose burdens on all of
us with the aim of reducing our consumption of energy and increasing our
production. Great attention has been paid to the considerations of fairness, and I
can assure you that the burdens will not fall more harshly on those less able to
bear them.
I am recommending a plan to make us invulnerable to cutoffs of foreign oil. It
will require sacrifices, but it—and this is most important—it will work.
I have set the following national energy goals to assure that our future is as
secure and as productive as our past:
First, we must reduce oil imports by 1 million barrels per day by the end
of this year and by 2 million barrels per day by the end of 1977.
Second, we must end vulnerability to economic disruption by foreign
suppliers by 1985.
Third, we must develop our energy technology and resources so that the
United States has the ability to supply a significant share of the energy needs of
the free world by the end of this century.
To attain these objectives, we need immediate action to cut imports. Unfortu-
nately, in the short term there are only a limited number of actions which can
increase domestic supply. I will press for all of them.
I urge quick action on the necessary legislation to allow commercial produc-
tion at the Elk Hills, California, Naval Petroleum Reserve. In order that we
make greater use of domestic coal resources, I am submitting amendments to
the Energy Supply and Environmental Coordination Act which will greatly
increase the number of powerplants that can be promptly converted to coal.
Obviously, voluntary conservation continues to be essential, but tougher
programs are needed—and needed now. Therefore, I am using Presidential
powers to raise the fee on all imported crude oil and petroleum products. The
crude oil fee level will be increased $1 per barrel on February 1, by $2 per barrel
on March 1, and by $3 per barrel on April 1. I will take actions to reduce undue
hardships on any geographical region. The foregoing are interim administra-
40
