[392]
July 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
lower consumer prices as a participant in your agency's proceedings. Further-
more, the Attorney General will continue to ensure vigorous antitrust prosecu-
tion to remove private sector barriers to competition.
We have or will propose regulatory reform legislation in such areas as energy,
transportation, financial institutions, and communications. I have asked Con-
gress for its cooperation in giving these bills early consideration, and I ask for
your personal and organizational support in achieving needed reform.
The legislation I am proposing would reduce the Government's role in the
setting of prices. Also, it would enhance innovation by making it easier for new
businesses to compete with existing firms. It would remove barriers from exist-
ing firms to allow them to develop new services and lower prices as well as
abandon unprofitable or unnecessary services.
This meeting and my earlier meeting with the Congressional representatives
are only the beginning, and I emphasize that. Today, we will continue the dialog
begun at the Congressional meeting.
Rod Hills and Paul MacAvoy, as I indicated, will briefly describe our agenda
for the meeting this morning. I will be interested in hearing more about the
steps you are taking to improve our system of regulation as well as the problems
you face in this effort.
I am particularly hopeful that we will be able to identify those practices which
are more deserving of attention and reform.
If this meeting does foster a program of action-and I think it can—and a new
spirit of cooperation between all of our commissions, the Congress, and the
White House, then in my judgment we will be responsive to the public interest.
I thank you for being here and at this point I'll call on Rod Hills to get the
meeting started as the moderator.
[The President spoke at 11:07 a.m. in the East Room at the White House. In his remarks,
the President referred to Roderick M. Hills, Counsel to the President, and Paul W.
MacAvoy, a member of the Council of Economic Advisers.
Attending the meeting were the Chairman and one member each of the Civil Aeronautics
Board, Commodity Futures Trading Commission, Consumer Product Safety Commission,
Federal Communications Commission, Federal Maritime Commission, Federal Power
Commission, Federal Trade Commission, Interstate Commerce Commission, Nuclear Regu-
latory Commission, and Securities and Exchange Commission.
for
At 1:10 p.m., the President concluded the meeting with the following remarks:]
At the outset, in the closing remarks, let me thank each and every one of you
your participation.
You have a great responsibility individually and collectively. Some are old in
952
