January 30
[57]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
57
Remarks of Welcome to Prime Minister Harold Wilson
of the United Kingdom. January 30, 1975
Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen:
It gives me a very great deal of pleasure to welcome you again to the United
States. You are no stranger, of course, to this city and to this house. Your visits
here over the years as a staunch ally and a steadfast friend are continuing evi-
dence of the excellence of the ties between our countries and our people.
You, Mr. Prime Minister, are the honored leader of one of America's truest
allies and oldest friends. Any student of American history and American cul-
ture knows how significant is our common heritage. We have actually con-
tinued to share a wonderful common history.
Americans can never forget how the very roots of our democratic political
system and of our concepts of liberty and government are to be found in Britain.
Over the years, Britain and the United States have stood together as trusting
friends and allies to defend the cause of freedom on a worldwide basis. Today,
the North Atlantic Alliance remains the cornerstone of our common defense.
However, we and other members of the Atlantic community face a new
dimension of challenges. That these challenges today are different from those
that we have confronted in the past does not mean that they are any less
perilous.
What is at stake is the future of industrialized democracies which have per-
ceived and sustained their destiny in common for 30 years. The problems of
recession, inflation, and of assuring equitable access to fairly priced resources
threaten the stability of every economy and the welfare of people in developed
as well as developing nations alike. These problems defy solution by national
means alone.
Mr. Prime Minister, as I recently said in my State of the Union Address, if
we act imaginatively and boldly to deal with our present problems, as we acted
after World War II, then this period will, in retrospect, be seen as one of the
great creative moments in our history.
Britain's role then, as now, was crucial. Only by working together can the
industrialized democracies and the nations of the world overcome these great
challenges. Only in this manner can we insure a better life and a better world
for all peoples.
The United States, for its part, is fully prepared to give our closest coopera-
133
