[243]
May 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
job going to be complicated by what happened in Southeast Asia? You have
gone out of your way in the past week or two to say the United States will honor
its foreign commitments. What sort of private feedback are you getting from
foreign capitals? Is there a lack of confidence now, a loss of confidence in the
United States?
THE PRESIDENT. We do get reactions from foreign governments wondering
what our position will be, asking where we will go and what our policy will be.
We have indicated to our friends that we will maintain our commitments. We
understand the perception that some countries may have as a result of the setback
in South Vietnam. But that perception is not a reality, because the United States
is strong militarily. The United States is strong economically, despite our current
problems. And we are going to maintain our leadership on a worldwide basis.
And we want our friends to know that we will stand by them, and we want any
potential adversaries to know that we will stand up to them.
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
[8.] Q. Mr. President, there have been persistent reports here in Washington
that the Rockefeller Commission is looking into reports that somehow or the
other, discussions of the assassination of Fidel Castro may have somehow trig-
gered the assassination of John Kennedy. Can you tell us, is there any connection
between those two events?
THE PRESIDENT. I cannot give you the inside information on the Rockefeller
Commission, because I established it for the purpose of investigating the CIA
and making any recommendations concerning it. It is my understanding that
they are taking a very broad look. Until I get their report, I think it would be
premature for me to make any comment as to precisely where they are going
with their investigation.
Now, as a former member of the Warren Commission, a commission that I
think did a good job-we found, as a Warren Commission, no connection of
anything between Cuba and the United States. We found no evidence of a
conspiracy, foreign or domestic.
ADMINISTRATION ACCOMPLISHMENTS
[9.] Q. Mr. President, after 8 years of a Republican in the White House,
there probably will be a lot of people who next year will say it is time for a
change. Now what accomplishments can you cite to rebut the argument that
there should be such a change?
1
646
