[54]
January 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
Q. Mr. President, your comments a few moments ago on the tax cut question
left me, at least, with the impression that you are more open to compromise on
the details of that part of your package as opposed to the energy part of your
package. Is that correct, sir?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think so, except the circumstances are different. The
energy program is very broad, and it is highly integrated and highly correlated,
all the various parts. Now, the tax plan is too, but there always have been varia-
tions between what a President recommended and what a Congress did in these
areas very few instances that I have run into or recollect, that what the President
sent down, Congress approved.
I still believe the rebate on 1974 taxes is the right one. You know, we had some
criticism. People said, well, why don't you put it all on 1975 and change with-
holding. Well, the fellow who does not have a job in 1975 is not going to get any
benefit if you just change withholding. He might have had a job in 1974, and he
will get a rebate.
So, you have to go back to 1974 if you are going to get any return to somebody,
because more people had jobs than they have in 1975. So, I think you have got
to go back to 1974.
I notice that Al Ullman's plan does talk about $6 billion to $7 billion worth of
it in 1974 rebates, which is a little different-well, it is $6 billion to $7 billion dif-
ferent than when he first talked to me, because he was thinking all of it on 1975.
So, I think there is room for some flexibility, even though we are strongly in
favor of what we originally submitted.
Q. Are you saying on your energy program that you are not willing to
compromise on the tariff at all until the Democrats do come up with some
comprehensive alternative to your plan?
THE PRESIDENT. I think so.
Q. Could I just follow that one up? Mr. President, what about the more
extensive proposal, the second stage of the proposal; that is, to decontrol in
April? Will you go forward with that decontrol on the old oil in April if
Congress has not come up with a program?
THE PRESIDENT. I see no reason to change that time schedule from the whole
program. I would hope they would act, however, and that, of course, is the
thrust of the action that we are taking on February 1.
Q. Mr. President, would it not set an admirable example for Congress if you
were to dismantle the WIN operation now that it is largely outmoded?
THE PRESIDENT. No. I said in the State of the Union and I said in my Monday
night speech that you have to have governmental action but you also have to
128
