[126]
March 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
sistent relationship to earnings and will not be so vulnerable to changes in the
economy.
Consequently, I have directed the Secretary of Health, Education, and Wel-
fare to present to me a series of proposals for stabilizing the benefit structure.
This will enable me to make recommendations to the Congress as early as
possible.
Stabilization of the benefit structure, however, will not provide all the addi-
tional revenues that will eventually be required by social security. While exist-
ing reserves are adequate to maintain the fund's financial integrity for the next
several years, I want to ensure the integrity of the system into the 21st century.
Therefore, I have asked the Vice President to have the Domestic Council
explore alternative approaches to financing and to make appropriate recom-
mendations to me.
I strongly support the “earned right” principle that has been a basic feature
of social security since its inception 40 years ago. Therefore, I am opposed to the
Advisory Council's specific recommendation calling for the transfer of Medicare
financing from the social security trust funds to general funds of the Treasury.
NOTE: The final report is printed in H. Doc. 94-75 (94th Cong., 1st sess.).
127
Letter Accepting the Resignation of Federal Power Commissioner
Rush Moody, Jr. March 7, 1975
Dear Rush:
I have your letter of February 28, and it is with a special sense of regret that
I accept your resignation as a Commissioner of the Federal Power Commission,
effective March 15, 1975, as you requested.
You can be sure I understand the reasons which led to your decision and
that I share your strong conviction in the urgent need to review and change
our present natural gas policies. I will continue to support, in the strongest terms
possible, Congressional action deregulating new natural gas. I recognize, as you
do, that affirmative legislation on this matter is critical to our goal of energy
independence.
While we will be sorry to lose your valued counsel, nevertheless, I welcome this
opportunity to express my personal appreciation for the outstanding manner
in which you have fulfilled your responsibilities on the Commission. Your service
has been distinguished not only by your exceptional ability, but also by your
332
