[163]
March 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
163
Statement Announcing Humanitarian Assistance for Refugees
in the Republic of Vietnam. March 29, 1975
A SEVERE emergency exists in the coastal communities of South Vietnam
which are swollen with helpless civilian refugees who have fled the North Viet-
nam offensive. They are desperately in need of any assistance we and other
nations can provide.
To help the refugees reach safe haven further south, I have ordered American
naval transports and contract vessels to assist in the evacuation of refugees from
the coastal seaports.
I also call upon all nations and corporations that have ships in the vicinity of
the South Vietnamese coast to help evacuate refugees to safety in the south.
I have directed that U.S. Government resources be made available to meet
immediate humanitarian needs and I have appointed Mr. Daniel Parker, Ad-
ministrator of the Agency for International Development, as my Special Coordi-
nator for Disaster Relief.
164
Address to the Nation Upon Signing the Tax Reduction
Act of 1975. March 29, 1975
Fellow Americans and fellow taxpayers:
Eleven weeks ago, in mid-January, I requested the new Congress to pass as
its first priority a simple $16 billion reduction in Federal income taxes in order
to stimulate economic activity and put people back to work.
I asked for a one-time refund to individual 1974 taxpayers up to a maximum
of $1,000, enough to assist in the purchase of new cars, home appliances, or other
improvements, thus helping business and workers in areas that have been espe-
cially hard hit by the recession. I also asked for bigger investment credits to
encourage all businessmen and farmers to expand and make more jobs.
Jobs were then and are now my main concern. Unfortunately, though some
other economic signs are improving, the employment picture remains bleak. I
want most to help those who want to get back to work in productive jobs. This
can best be done by temporary tax incentives to charge up our free enterprise
system—not by government handouts and make-work programs that go on
forever.
406
