[101]
February 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
101
Message to the Congress Reporting on the Balance of Payments
Deficit Incurred Under the North Atlantic Treaty.
February 20, 1975
To the Congress of the United States:
In accordance with Section 812(d) of the Department of Defense Appro-
priation Authorization Act, 1974 (Public Law 93–155), I am pleased to submit
a fifth report to the Congress on our progress toward offsetting the balance
of payments deficit resulting from the deployment of U.S. forces in NATO
Europe.
As required by Section 812, the Department of Commerce has been working
in consultation with the Department of Defense and the General Accounting
Office to define the U.S. balance of payments deficit on military transactions
incurred in Fiscal Year 1974 as a result of our NATO commitments. In my
November report, I provided to the Congress tentative figures developed by the
Commerce Department which estimated our FY 74 expenditures at $1.983 bil-
lion. This has now been confirmed as the final FY 74 expenditure figure.
The Commerce Department is now in the process of identifying U.S. FY 74
balance of payments receipts reflecting military-related sales and exports to
our European NATO allies, through both official U.S. Foreign Military Sales
(FMS) and commercial channels. Once total receipts have been identified, they
will be subtracted from the $1.983 billion in expenditures to establish the FY 74
deficit. While the Department has been able to confirm Allied purchases through
FMS channels, it has been unable to settle on a figure for commercial receipts.
The Commerce Department's balance of payments accounting procedures are
not in sufficient detail to permit it to isolate all of these purchases. Using informa-
tion provided by our Allies through the NATO Economic Directorate, the
Commerce Department is making an effort tc identify as many of these transac-
tions as possible and to include them in its calculation of the balance of payments
deficit.
An interagency committee within the Executive Branch has been working to
identify other transactions which serve to offset this balance of payments deficit.
Of major importance is the FY 74-75 US/FRG Offset Agreement, which was
described in some detail in the May 1974 report. We have since been working
in cooperation with our Allies to identify additional categories of offsets. These
will include Allied purchases of U.S. military-related equipment which cannot
266
