[166]
April 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
I believe that in any case where the United States does not live up to its moral
or treaty obligations, it can't help but have an adverse impact on other allies we
have around the world.
We read in European papers to the effect that Western Europe ought to have
some questions. Let me say to our Western European allies: We are going to
stand behind our commitments to NATO, and we are going to stand behind our
commitments to other allies around the world.
But there has to be in the minds of some people, a feeling that maybe the
tragedy of Indochina might affect our relations with their country. I repeat, the
United States is going to continue its leadership and stand by its allies.
Q. Are you, in fact, a believer of the domino theory-if Southeast Asia falls,
then perhaps some of the other countries in the Pacific are next?
THE PRESIDENT. I believe that there is a great deal of credibility to the domino
theory. I hope it does not happen. I hope that other countries in Southeast Asia—
Thailand, the Philippines—don't misread the will of the American people and
the leadership of this country to believing that we are going to abandon our
position in Southeast Asia. We are not.
But I do know from the things I read and the messages that I hear, that some
of them do get uneasy. I hope and trust they believe me when I say we are going
to stand by our allies.
PROTECTION OF AMERICANS OVERSEAS
[3.] Q. Mr. President, as you are well aware, there are about 7,000 Americans
still in Saigon. They are in danger not only from Communist attack but from
South Vietnamese reprisals. There are reports the South Vietnamese are in a bad
temper toward Americans. Do you feel that under the War Powers Act and also
under the limitations voted by Congress in 1973 on combat by Americans in
Indochina that you could send troops in to protect those Americans, and would
you, if it came to that?
THE PRESIDENT. I can assure you that I will abide totally with the War Powers
Act that was enacted by the Congress several years ago. At the same time, I like-
wise assure you that we have contingency plans to meet all problems involving
evacuation, if that should become necessary. At this point, I do not believe that I
should answer specifically how those contingency plans might be carried out.
Q. Sir, you don't want to talk specifically. Can you tell us, however, if you do
believe that you do have the authority to send in troops? You are not saying, I
understand, whether you would, but do you have the authority?
THE PRESIDENT. It is my interpretation of that legislation that a President has
414
