March 14
[135]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
I have some very fond memories of non-metropolitan weekly and daily news-
papers in the Fifth District of Michigan, which was, of course, the district that
I had the honor and privilege of representing for over 25 years. During the var-
ious Congressional campaigns that I had-13 in all—I advertised very, very
heavily, with good results—[laughter]—which I think is a tribute to the impact
that all of you in your respective communities has on the people that you
represent.
I know firsthand that the weekly newspaper or the daily newspaper in a
suburban area is the best means of communication, and I have been in many
homes in rural areas as well as in small towns where the paper that came on
Thursday or Friday was still good reading material on the following Wednes-
day. [Laughter]
In recent years, the growth in the number of suburban newspapers, I think,
reflects the importance of this brand of personal journalism. In an age of mass
communications, you are in the business—and fortunately—the business of local
communications. It is my judgment, as I expressed a moment ago, that you
fill a very important need for your readers—the need to know about the prob-
lems of the local community.
Although we must recognize—and we do that the world has grown small
and interdependent in many, many ways, the fact remains that the news around
the corner and down the street is still mighty important to people all over this
great country.
We live in a very mobile society, and too many of us, we have been pulled
away from our communities. We have been pulled away from the roots of our
early youth. Yet, your newspapers put us in touch with our new communities
and give us links to our hometowns.
I think it is very fortunate that you are a part of the dialog that keeps self-
government going-healthy, strong, and very critical in these days. Naturally,
I admire your work, but I add very quickly that I need your help. A meaning-
ful discussion of national problems cannot take place only on network television
or in large metropolitan newspapers, because these forums do not provide suffi-
cient opportunity for audience response and direct participation.
One of the reasons, in my judgment, it is important for me and members of
this Administration to travel around our country and to meet in Washington
with groups like this one is to listen as well as to talk about the Nation's
problems.
Perhaps my Congressional background convinced me of the value of face-to-
face contact, but there is no substitute for the discussions of ideas in person with
349
