January 23
[43]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
agreements, are vitally important if we are to mobilize the kind of action that
is essential to solve our problems.
Because this group publishes specifically for black communities which were
neglected for too many years, you have had to assume some very special and
greater responsibilities. Long before the civil rights movement became a
national cause, you were communicating to your readers the difficulties faced
by blacks, and I know this from the several black newspapers that were published
in my own Congressional district.
But now with your greater national awareness of black problems, your role
is even more important than ever before. You are on the case, day in and out, and
this continued attention is vitally needed.
Blacks in our society have too often been mentally segregated by some thinkers
and planners who acted as if blacks did not have the same expectations and prob-
lems as other Americans. I promised at the very beginning of my Administration
to be President of all the people, and I am keeping that pledge.
I can assure you I intend to do so. The Administration will not slice off a small
portion of the pie and say, “This is enough for the 25 millions of Americans who
are black." We know that many of the serious problems facing Americans—
unemployment, unsafe streets, and unequal education-too often press more
heavily on blacks and other minorities.
In drafting the tax rebate proposal, one of the major concerns was to see that
the burden of the recession did not fall on those least able to pay or to afford it—
our low-income citizens. But at the same time, millions of middle class Ameri-
cans-black as well as white-have been caught between inflation and recession.
We cannot penalize those who have worked their way up because of their
success. I know that you share with me a very deep belief in preserving the
upward mobility of our society. In recent years, blacks have made economic and
educational gains that must not be wiped out by leaving the middle class out of
tax relief.
There are other areas, of course, of black progress that we will not ignore
because of the economy. One of the continuing commitments that must be hon-
ored is full political equality for all Americans.
As Dr. Goodlett indicated, I told Congress last week that I plan to ask for
another 5-year extension of the Voting Rights Act first passed in 1965, renewed
in 1970, and up for renewal at this time. This law must not be allowed to expire
in August of 1975.
The voting rights law has helped open the way for the election of blacks in
all parts of the Nation, and that movement must be continued. As I look back
89
