[196]
April 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
196
Remarks at the White House Conference on Domestic and
Economic Affairs in Concord, New Hampshire. April 18, 1975
Governor Thomson, Mayor McLain, Mr. Clements, distinguished guests, ladies
and gentlemen:
Let me express my very great appreciation to Governor Thomson, to the
people of New Hampshire, particularly the members of the State legislature,
for the warm welcome that I have received here in this great State. And
may I say to Governor Longley and to Governor Salmon, I am deeply grateful
that they were able to come and to participate, to some extent, and I am grateful
for the people of both Maine and Vermont who have come and participated in
this affair.
We believe that direct communication between the working people at the
highest level in the Federal Government-have an obligation, the Cabinet and
others, to meet face-to-face the people in the many States of our great Union.
It is my recollection, Bill Baroody, this is the sixth that we have had. And it is
important for us to learn from you and, hopefully, we can communicate and
work with you.
So, I thank you and I welcome you, and I hope that you feel that this meeting
here, with its broad participation—labor, management, professional people, and
others--has been worthwhile.
It goes without saying that I am delighted to be in New Hampshire. I have
been here a good many times, going back to the late thirties. New Hampshire,
in my opinion, is a State of infinite riches, a State that has more than its share
of beauty, a State that has more than its share of Yankee know-how, a State
that has more than its share of American history, and a State that has less than
its share of United States Senators. [Laughter]
Now, if I might, I would like to add a footnote. New Hampshire, in my
humble judgment, deserves its full constitutional representation in the United
States Senate now.
As I said a moment ago, I am pleased to participate in this White House Con-
ference on Domestic and Economic Affairs. As I said, this is a two-way street.
These conferences help us in Washington, so that we can keep in touch with
your views, and at the same time it gives to us the opportunity to tell you about
our programs.
518
