[9]
January 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
also have the responsibility to ensure that expenditures of the taxpayer's dollars
are kept to an absolute minimum and that only the most most necessary new
Federal programs are pursued. This requires the President and the Congress
to carefully review the total Federal budget and not each item separately.
H.R. 15223 requires NTSB to submit its budget and legislative recommenda-
tions directly to the Congress. This severely limits my ability to view these
recommendations in the context of the overall budgets and their effect on the
economy, in public borrowing, and other considerations.
Although I have signed H.R. 15223 into law because it will improve trans-
portation safety, I will ask Congress to correct this unacceptable budget and
legislative submission provision.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 15223, approved January 3, 1975, is Public Law 93-633 (88 Stat. 2156).
10
Statement on Signing the Indian Self-Determination and
Education Assistance Act. January 4, 1975
I HAVE signed into law S. 1017, the Indian Self-Determination and Education
Assistance Act. My Administration is committed to furthering the self-determi-
nation of Indian communities without terminating the special relationships
between the Federal Government and the Indian people.
The Congress is to be congratulated for its passage of this legislation. It will
enhance our efforts to implement this policy of Indian self-determination.
Title I of this act gives the permanence and stature of law to the objective of
my Administration of allowing—indeed encouraging-Indian tribes to operate
programs serving them under contract to the Federal Government. Further-
more, with the passage of this act, Indian communities and their leaders now
share with the Federal Government the responsibility for the full realization of
this objective. It will be through the initiatives of Indian communities that the
authorities provided in this act will be implemented. I urge these communities
to make the fullest possible use of them and pledge the support of this
Administration.
In addition to making this kind of contracting a right, the act does much to
make it feasible and practical. For example, it authorizes the Bureau of Indian
Affairs to make grants to tribal organizations to help them develop the abilities
of potential workers-through training and other means—to operate these
programs. At the request of the tribe, it also allows Federal employees who work
10
