April 21
[204]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
healthy for a President to get out of Washington, to go to New Hampshire, to
go to Boston, to go to New Orleans, to go to other places.
You get a little different perspective of not only the problems but the atti-
tude of people, and it is helpful to get that input from other sources.
SECRETARY OF STATE KISSINGER
[5.] MR. CRONKITE. John Hersey, in that excellent New York Times Maga-
zine piece yesterday, said that you are quite impatient with palace feuds-
THE PRESIDENT. That's an understatement.
MR. CRONKITE. And yet, reports have gone around quite continually here in
Washington that there are members of your most intimate White House Staff
who would like to see Dr. Kissinger go. Are you aware of that?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, if they believe it, they have never said it to me. I hap-
pen to think Henry Kissinger is an outstanding Secretary of State. I have
thought it since I have known him and he has been in the job.
Fortunately, my personal acquaintanceship with Secretary Kissinger goes
back 10 or 15 years, so I have known him over a period of time, and it is my
strong feeling that he has made a tremendous contribution to world peace.
He has been the most effective Secretary of State certainly in my period of
service in the Congress, or in the Vice Presidency, or the White House. I have
never heard anybody on my staff ever make a recommendation to me that
Secretary Kissinger should leave.
MR. CRONKITE. What about suggestions—
THE PRESIDENT. I would strongly disagree with them and let them know it
quite forthrightly.
MR. CRONKITE. What about suggestions that perhaps someone else should
be the National Security adviser, that he should give up one of those hats? How
do you feel about that?
THE PRESIDENT. If you were to draw a chart, I think you might make a good
argument that that job ought to be divided.
On the other hand, sometimes in government you get unique individuals
who can very successfully handle a combination of jobs like Secretary Kissinger
is doing today as head of the National Security Council and Secretary of State.
If you get that kind of a person, you ought to take advantage of that capability.
And therefore, under the current circumstances, I would not recommend, nor
would I want, a division of those two responsibilities.
MR. CRONKITE. Is there any talk of his resigning?
549
