July 1
[370]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:20 a.m. in the
Wilmington Room at the Sheraton-Park Hotel. In
his opening remarks, he referred to Secretary of
Transportation William T. Coleman, Jr., and the
following NAACP officials: Roy Wilkins, executive
director, Margaret Bush Wilson, chairman of the
board of directors, Clarence Mitchell, director of the
Washington bureau, and Rev. Julius C. Hope, of
Georgia.
370
Remarks at the Swearing In of Two Department of Health,
Education, and Welfare Officials. July 1, 1975
Thank you very, very much, Secretary Weinberger. Assistant Secretary Cooper
and Mrs. Cooper, Director Fredrickson and Mrs. Fredrickson, distinguished
guests, ladies and gentlemen:
At the outset, let me thank each and every one of you here for the very warm
and friendly welcome. Let me express to you, on behalf of all of those who are
outside, my gratitude and appreciation for the warmth of their welcome. I am
deeply grateful.
Actually, I am here this morning for several very, very good reasons.
First, and more important, I want to recognize and wish to honor two
outstanding men who are taking office today, one as Assistant Secretary for
Health, and the other as Director of the National Institutes of Health.
Second, I wish to thank from the bottom of my heart Cap Weinberger for
the outstanding job he has done as Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare.
Cap will be missed very greatly by me, I am sure by all of you, and in the
broadest context by all Americans.
We thank you very, very much, Cap.
HEW, as we all know, is a huge and very complex department, but as a
result of Cap's leadership and responsible decisions, it is in better shape now
than it has been in its entire 22-year history.
I think it is a fair assessment that HEW is operating at peak efficiency today
and its programs are more effectively reaching those who are truly in need.
Obviously, there is always plenty of room for improvement, but on any fair
assessment, a great job is being done, and I thank him and I thank you.
Finally, I wish to pay a very long-deserved tribute to the National Institutes
of Health. The fact that the two men we are honoring today are both products
of this institution is testimony to its greatness as a training ground for leaders
in health and in medicine.
Over the years that I was in the Congress, I have watched the NIH grow into
the world's foremost medical research institution. I followed your achievements,
905
