January 24
[46]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
mitted, in my judgment, will meet and will solve it. But in order to get it
going, both in the Congress and otherwise, the public has to understand it. And
all we ask of you is to understand it yourself and give the facts. I think if the
facts are laid out on the table, the American people will support it.
Now, the one-time tax rebate is a matter of great concern, because it deals
directly with the manner and the amount of money to be put back into the
taxpayer's pocket. This rebate has been integrated very carefully with the
other tax proposals. We are not looking at just one segment of the economic
picture. In the drawing up of these proposals, the emphasis was on the con-
tinuing economic health of all taxpayers, low- as well as middle-income citizens.
Our economic recovery, obviously, cannot be accomplished simply by a
one-shot tax rebate. If we are to return to a stable, balanced, and growing
economy, a good business climate, we have to pursue a program that treads
a very prudent line between economic stimulation and personal sacrifice.
Of course, a proposal such as the 5-percent ceiling on social security increases
for 1975 is a perfect target for irresponsible politicking. I emphasize that this
is a ceiling. We expect increases, but a ceiling of 5 percent under the current
circumstances, in my judgment, can be justified.
There is a legitimate national concern, which I happen to share, about the
impact of inflation on fixed income of our older citizens. The proposed ceiling
on the size of these increases in Federal benefits is coupled with plans for a
moratorium on new Federal spending programs and a ceiling on Federal
salaries, and let me illustrate what I mean:
Shortly after I became President, in October of last year, I proposed to the
Congress that the cost-of-living increase that was then expected of about 5.4
percent for Federal salaries—I recommended that it be deferred for 6 months,
and the justification for it was that a 6-month deferral of a pay increase for Fed-
eral employees, some 2,100,000 and roughly 2,100,000 for military personnel,
would have saved the Federal Treasury $700 million.
Now, at that time, we were faced with a serious problem with the prospective
deficit. I thought it made sense to ask for that deferral. Unfortunately, the
Congress, under the procedure that was available, rejected my recommendation.
I think it made sense. I wish the Congress had approved it, but what we are
trying to do in 1975 is to put a 5-percent ceiling on Federal pay increases just as
we have recommended a ceiling for social security, Federal retirement, both
civilian and military.
Now, it may be good politics for some critics to suggest that we start reducing
the growth in Federal spending somewhere else, areas other than social security,
111
