May 1
[229]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
undertaking the Government-wide sales program-promotional program-for
this effort in this year.
I want you to notice that I didn't have the beneficiary made out to me. It is
made out to my good wife. She expects to live a lot longer than I do. [Laughter]
SECRETARY SIMON. Also, as a memento of this occasion, I'd like to present this
American Citizen Volunteer Minuteman [statuette] to your guests, which says
"American citizen volunteer serving . . . in the beginning and serving today
through the U.S. Savings Bonds Program, Gerald R. Ford, the President of the
United States."
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much. It looks like the people we saw at
Lexington and Concord a week or so ago. Thank you very much, and congratula-
tions.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1 p.m. in the Oval Office at the White House.
229
Remarks Upon Presenting the President's Trophy to the
Handicapped American of the Year. May 1, 1975
THANK YOU very much, Harold, for greeting me and giving me an opportu-
nity to say a word or two to our distinguished guest, Elton Ringsak, the Handi-
capped American of the Year.
I am very delighted to meet with you and to meet Elton. All of the people in
this room, of course, are very familiar with the great problems that face the
handicapped. And one of those problems you recognize, as well if not better
than I, is the lack of understanding on the part of many Americans of the prob-
lems that handicapped people face in this country.
I think there is also a problem that the American people don't understand, and
that is the great courage and the strength that handicapped people have. They
may be handicapped physically, but their spirit and their determination make up,
in most cases, for the problems that they have physically.
I know that our honored guest today has done a superb job in his State in
attaining the enactment of legislation, in convincing people in his State that
there can be real progress in making job opportunities a better life for those who
are handicapped physically.
So, I commend you, Elton, for this great award, and I thank you for what you
have done over the years. This recognition is a proper tribute to you, but all of us
617
