February 25
[108]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
108
Remarks at the White House Conference on Domestic and
Economic Affairs in Hollywood, Florida. February 25, 1975
Governor Askew, members of the Cabinet, distinguished public officials, ladies
and gentlemen:
It is a very high honor and a very great privilege for me to have an opportu-
nity of coming to the great State of Florida and participating in this conference,
which I hope and trust will be beneficial not only to you individually but to
this area, this State as a whole.
I am deeply indebted to the Governor for three specific things: Number one,
the very warm welcome that he and Mrs. Askew gave to Betty and me at the
airport, the opportunity to talk with them on the way in from the airport, and
for that I thank both you and Mrs. Askew, Governor.
Number two, I am deeply grateful that the Governor came to Atlanta several
weeks ago when we had a comparable conference, and I had the opportunity of
hosting some 10 or 12 Southern and Southeastern Governors, where we spent
the evening discussing various problems that were related to their respective
States and problems that I, or we, had at the Federal level.
The one suggestion that I remember most vividly came from Governor
Askew. He said that the State of Florida had very high unemployment in the
construction industry, they had available money to carry out an expedited Fed-
eral aid to highway program, and that he was interested in meaningful jobs.
I promised that I would go back to Washington and take a look at the avail-
ability of some money that the Federal Government had impounded in the
Highway Trust Fund. And we looked the situation over, and as a result, some
$2 billion of Federal aid to highway funding was made available to the 50 States.
For that suggestion, Mr. Governor, I thank you very much, because it will
mean significant jobs. They expect about 125,000 to 130,000 jobs throughout the
United States as a result, and it will mean safety on the highways and it will
mean the completion in many instances of some of the missing links in our
interstate system.
Of course, I thank you for the fine turnout of all these great citizens of the
State of Florida on this occasion. It is a privilege and a pleasure for me to be here.
I was telling the Governor that my parents came here almost regularly every
year for a number of years, quite a few years ago, and my wife-she always has
loved it down here. And I must say it has got a great appeal to me.
281
