[321]
June 11
Public Papers of the Presidents
nuclear power. And I ask this question: How can this country grow and prosper
and give the kind of opportunities to all of you that you deserve if we don't have
energy?
Now, unfortunately, the circumstances are such that the United States of
America, after being abundant in energy all its lifetime, for 198 years, today is
faced with a very severe and a very critical shortage of energy. Today the United
States imports roughly 38 to 40 percent of its oil consumed. A few years ago, we
imported very little oil. Every day the dependence on imported oil becomes
greater and greater.
Now, we don't expect any cutoff of our foreign oil imports. But it did happen
in October of 1973, and for a period of 4 or 5 months America was literally limp-
ing along with an insufficient supply of crude oil. We don't produce enough
domestically. It so happens that our daily production of domestic crude oil in
this country is getting less and less and less, which means that our dependence
on foreign oil becomes greater and greater and greater every day.
Now, this great country should never let itself get into the position of being
vulnerable to either price actions or supply actions by other countries overseas.
Your generations are the generations that are more and more critically affected
than mine, because the United States in the future has to have a self-sufficiency,
and if we don't, we can't have all the blessings and the good things that have
been available in the past.
What am I saying? I am saying we have got to develop nuclear power and
produce more nuclear plants around the country. We have to get more natural
gas and crude oil production in the United States, in Alaska, and other areas that
are potentially very important. We have to open a good many more coal mines.
We have to use coal, which is our greatest source of energy in this country.
The estimates indicate we have some 300 years of coal supply. We have to use
our ingenuity, our scientific capability to find how we can take the power of the
sun—solar heat, solar energy. We have to investigate and find ways to expand
our geothermal energy capacities.
What I am saying is America, in a wide variety of ways, must maximize its
effort to be self-sufficient so that your generation cannot be held hostage by other
foreign governments.
We have asked the Congress to pass energy legislation which stimulates pro-
duction and forces conservation. As you get to know your Congressmen, your
Senators-I hope you will-urge them to pass an energy program, to pass energy
legislation. It is their obligation to do so for the country, for you, and for the
future of the world, as a matter of fact.
806
