[179]
April 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
so. Improvement of relations with adversaries does not mean any relaxation of
our national vigilance. On the contrary, it is the firm maintenance of both
strength and vigilance that makes possible steady progress toward a safer and a
more peaceful world.
The national security budget that I have submitted is the minimum the
United States needs in this critical hour. The Congress should review it care-
fully, and I know it will. But it is my considered judgment that any significant
reduction, revision, would endanger our national security and thus jeopardize
the peace.
Let no ally doubt our determination to maintain a defense second to none, and
let no adversary be tempted to test our readiness or our resolve.
History is testing us today. We cannot afford indecision, disunity, or disarray
in the conduct of our foreign affairs. You and I can resolve here and now
that this Nation shall move ahead with wisdom, with assurance, and with
national unity.
The world looks to us for the vigor and for the vision that we have demon-
strated so often in the past in great moments of our national history. And as
I look down the road, I see a confident America, secure in its strengths, secure
in its values, and determined to maintain both. I see a conciliatory America,
extending its hand to allies and adversaries alike, forming bonds of cooperation
to deal with the vast problems facing us all. I see a compassionate America, its
heart reaching out to orphans, to refugees, and to our fellow human beings
afflicted by war, by tyranny, and by hunger.
As President, entrusted by the Constitution with primary responsibility for
the conduct of our foreign affairs, I renew the pledge I made last August to
work cooperatively with the Congress. I ask that the Congress help to keep
America's word good throughout the world. We are one Nation, one govern-
ment, and we must have one foreign policy.
In an hour far darker than this, Abraham Lincoln told his fellow citizens,
and I quote: “We cannot escape history. We of this Congress and this Adminis-
tration will be remembered in spite of ourselves. No personal significance or
insignificance can spare one or another of us."
We who are entrusted by the people with the great decisions that fashion their
future can escape neither responsibilities nor our consciences. By what we do
now, the world will know our courage, our constancy, and our compassion.
The spirit of America is good and the heart of America is strong. Let us be
proud of what we have done and confident of what we can do.
472
