[208]
April 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
out having achieved human perfection, but we have attained a very remarkable
self-governed society that possesses the flexibility and the dynamism to grow and
undertake an entirely new agenda, an agenda for America's third century.
So, I ask you to join me in helping to write that agenda. I am as determined
as a President can be to seek national rediscovery of the belief in ourselves that
characterized the most creative periods in our Nation's history. The greatest
challenge of creativity, as I see it, lies ahead.
We, of course, are saddened indeed by the events in Indochina. But these
events, tragic as they are, portend neither the end of the world nor of America's
leadership in the world.
Let me put it this way, if I might. Some tend to feel that if we do not succeed
in everything everywhere, then we have succeeded in nothing anywhere. I reject
categorically such polarized thinking. We can and we should help others to help
themselves. But the fate of responsible men and women everywhere, in the final
decision, rests in their own hands, not in ours.
America's future depends upon Americans—especially your generation,
which is now equipping itself to assume the challenges of the future, to help
write the agenda for America.
Earlier today, in this great community, I spoke about the need to maintain
our defenses. Tonight, I would like to talk about another kind of strength, the
true source of American power that transcends all of the deterrent powers for
peace of our Armed Forces. I am speaking here of our belief in ourselves and our
belief in our Nation.
Abraham Lincoln asked, in his own words, and I quote, "What constitutes the
bulwark of our own liberty and independence?” And he answered, “It is not our
frowning battlements or bristling seacoasts, our Army or our Navy. Our defense
is in the spirit which prized liberty as the heritage of all men, in all lands every-
where."
It is in this spirit that we must now move beyond the discords of the past
decade. It is in this spirit that I ask you to join me in writing an agenda for the
future.
I welcome your invitation particularly tonight, because I know it is at Tulane
and other centers of thought throughout our great country that much considera-
tion is being given to the kind of future Americans want and, just as importantly,
will work for. Each of you are preparing yourselves for the future, and I am
deeply interested in your preparations and your opinions and your goals. How-
ever, tonight, with your indulgence, let me share with you my own views.
570
