[347]
June 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
Cambodia and South Vietnam by the Department of Defense and the Agency for
International Development as required by section 4(b)(3) of the Act.
I anticipate that the subsequent supplementary reports required by the Act
will provide the committees additional information on these activities.
Sincerely,
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters addressed
to the Honorable James O. Eastland, Chairman,
Senate Committee on the Judiciary; the Honorable
Peter W. Rodino, Chairman, House Committee on
the Judiciary; the Honorable John J. Sparkman,
Chairman, Senate Committee on Foreign Relations;
the Honorable Thomas E. Morgan, Chairman,
House Committee on International Relations; the
Honorable John L. McClellan, Chairman, Senate
GERALD R. FORD
Committee on Appropriations; and the Honorable
George H. Mahon, Chairman, House Committee on
Appropriations.
The reports are entitled:
"Report to the Congress-Interagency Task Force
on Indochina Refugees, June 15, 1975."
"Report Required by Section 4(b)(3) of the
Indochina Migration and Refugee Assistance Act of
1975."
348
Remarks Following a Meeting With Soviet Transpolar
Aviators. June 23, 1975
Ambassador Dobrynin, General Belyakov, General Baidukov, Colonel Chkalov:
Let me welcome all of you to the White House. I know this is the second
experience for the two generals and the first experience of Colonel Chkalov.
In 1937, these two generals and another flew from Moscow to Vancouver,
Washington, in 62 hours, and this plane is a duplicate of the plane that they
flew on this historic flight.
The three Soviet military personnel who are here with us here today spent
several days in Vancouver last week in a celebration of the flight that took
place almost 40 years ago.
I was just looking at the logbook in English that showed the various incidents
that took place as they flew on this really historic flight in 1937. And the three
gentlemen here within the last week or so flew in a modern Russian jet. It took
them 10 hours. So, the flight that they took almost 40 years ago took six times
as long as the flight they made over the same area in 1975.
General Belyakov has just presented to me this replica of the aircraft that
they flew in, a single-engine, piston-driven plane that the two of them and the
father of the colonel made in this flight from the Soviet Union to the United
States.
But the point I think is appropriate to make—this warm welcome given to
the Soviet pilots is an indication of the progress we have made in a people-to-
856
