[217]
April 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
Our revolutionary leaders heeded John Locke's teaching: "Where there is no
law, there is no freedom." Law makes human society possible. It pledges safety
to every member so that the company of fellow human beings can be a blessing
instead of a threat. Where law exists and is respected and is fairly enforced, trust
replaces fear.
Do we provide that domestic tranquillity which the Constitution seeks? If we
take the crime rates as an indication, the answer has to be no.
The number of violent crimes rises steadily, and we have recently suffered
the national disgrace of lawbreaking in high places. Violent crimes on our
streets and in our homes make fear pervasive. They strike at the very roots of
community life; they sever the bonds that link us as fellow citizens; they make
citizens fear each other.
Crime in high places, whether in the Federal Government, State government,
local governments, or in business, or in organized labor, sets an example that
makes it all the more difficult to foster a law-abiding spirit among ordinary
citizens.
And when we talk about obeying the law, we think of police and courts and
prisons and the whole apparatus of the law enforcement process. But the truth
is that most of us obey the law because we believe that compliance is the right
thing to do and not because the police may be watching.
As far as law violations in high places are concerned, let me stress this point:
In the present Administration, I have made it a matter of the highest priority to
restore to the executive branch, decency, honesty, and adherence to the law at all
levels. This has been done, and it will be continued.
I urge the same effort and the same dedication in State governments, where
recently there have been too many scandals. I urge the same standards in local
governments, also in industry and in labor. There is no way to inculcate in
society the spirit of law if society's leaders are not scrupulously law-abiding.
We have seen how lawbreaking by officials can be stopped by the proper func-
tioning of our basic institutions-executive, legislative, and judicial branches.
But America has been far from successful in dealing with the sort of crime that
obsesses America day and night. I mean street crime, crime that invades our
neighborhoods and our homes—murders, robberies, rapes, muggings, holdups,
break-ins—the kind of brutal violence that makes us fearful of strangers and
afraid to go out at night.
In thinking about this problem, I do not seek vindictive punishment of the
criminal, but protection of the innocent victim. The victims are my primary con-
590
