[107]
February 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
If additional military assistance is withheld or delayed, the Government forces
will be forced, within weeks, to surrender to the insurgents.
The economic situation is almost as difficult. Refugees forced to flee their
homes by the Communists' repressive measures and scorched-earth policies have
poured into Phnom Penh and other cities. Severe food shortages are already
beginning. If the Congress does not provide for continued deliveries of rice and
other essential supplies, millions of innocent people will suffer—people who
depend on us for their bare survival.
The Government of the Khmer Republic has demonstrated on countless
occasions its willingness to negotiate a compromise political settlement to bring
peace to its tormented land. It has been proven over the past two years that the
progressive cutbacks of American support have only undercut the possibilities of
negotiation by encouraging a ruthless enemy in the hope of obtaining a total
victory.
These are the harsh realities which the Congress must bear in mind as it
considers the Administration's request for supplemental assistance to Cambodia.
It has been a basic policy of this Government to give material support to
friends and allies who are willing and able to carry the burden of their own self-
defense. Cambodia is such an ally.
This is a moral question that must be faced squarely. Are we to deliberately
abandon a small country in the midst of its life and death struggle? Is the
United States, which so far has consistently stood by its friends through the
most difficult of times, now to condemn, in effect, a small Asian nation totally
dependent upon us? We cannot escape this responsibility. Our national security
and the integrity of our alliances depend upon our reputation as a reliable
partner. Countries around the world who depend on us for support—as well as
their foes will judge our performance. It is in this spirit and with this sense of
responsibility, Mr. Speaker, that I urge rapid and favorable action on my request
for additional assistance to Cambodia.
Sincerely,
[Honorable Carl Albert, Speaker of the House of Representatives, Washington, D.C.]
GERALD R. FORD
280
