[11]
January 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
authorizations for existing highway programs and $405 million for new cate-
gorical grants. Of these amounts, more than $500 million in contract authority
would be available to States without further action by the Congress.
Since funds for many of the existing programs are already being deferred,
these extra authorizations are not needed. Approving these funds at this time
would not only be unnecessary but highly inflationary as well. In addition, one
of the objectives of this Administration is reduce or eliminate categorical grants.
This bill provides authorizations for numerous new categorical grant programs.
Accordingly, I will recommend to Congress that release of most of this highway
obligational authority be deferred for 1975. I hope Congress will agree with this
plan.
The 94th Congress and the Administration must work together to develop a
highway program for this decade which is compatible with our national trans-
portation and economic objectives. I will work with the Congress to develop
such a program.
NOTE: As enacted, S. 3934, approved January 4, 1975, is Public Law 93-643 (88 Stat. 2281).
12
Statement on Signing the Headstart, Economic Opportunity,
and Community Partnership Act of 1974. January 4, 1975
I SIGNED into law H.R. 14449, the Headstart, Economic Opportunity, and
Community Partnership Act of 1974, a bill which continues the Community
Action program under a new agency, the Community Services Administration.
Although I have many reservations about features of this bill, I am signing
it because the measure is probably the best compromise we can hope to obtain.
The deadlock that has continued for several years between the executive branch
and the Congress regarding the future of the Community Action program and
the existence of a separate Office of Economic Opportunity had to be broken.
This bill authorizes the transfer of a successor agency into the Department
of Health, Education, and Welfare. While I would have preferred to end direct
Federal financial assistance to community action agencies, the Congress, in this
bill, has taken a significant step in the right direction. It has gradually scaled
down the Federal funding for these agencies and included the Community
Action program in the transfer to HEW.
I believe strongly that Federal social and economic assistance programs
12
