May 3
[236]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Japanese surrender as commander in chief of the largest naval armada ever
assembled.
Looking back on a period of my own life, one of the things of which I am
the proudest is that I can say, "I served under Admiral Nimitz in the Pacific."
As a lowly lieutenant on the U.S.S. Monterey, a carrier you could probably
stow on the hangar deck of the Nimitz, I saw very little of fleet admirals during
World War II. But every watch officer could recognize the crisp CINCPAC
[Commander in Chief, Pacific] dispatches that Admiral Nimitz obviously had
written in his own hand.
One biographer who did not know him—or who, I should say, did know
him—Professor E. B. Potter of the Naval Academy, summed up Admiral
Nimitz' qualities in simple words that well serve as a model for anyone who
aspires to leadership in any line of endeavor. And I quote from Professor Potter:
"He surrounded himself with the ablest men he could find and sought their
advice, but he made his own decisions. He was a keen strategist who never
forgot that he was dealing with human beings, on both sides of the conflict. He
was aggressive in war without hate, audacious while never failing to weigh the
risks."
Admiral Nimitz, of all the great American commanders of World War II,
was one of the most self-effacing and, certainly, one of the most effective. He
possessed great stamina, an abundance of common sense, and such immense
inner strength that he felt no need to strut or to shout.
Born near what today we would call the poverty level, he worked hard, he
studied hard, and was a long, long time getting ahead. He spent his whole life
training to serve his country in commanding men at sea, and when he was
needed, he was prepared. He learned by his mistakes and was tolerant of others,
but he was always in command.
Those who had the good fortune to know Admiral Nimitz will say his funda-
mental honesty, intellectual honesty and integrity, enabled him to keep a steady
course toward his ultimate objective without yielding to the tremendous pres-
sures of his vast responsibilities. He did the job he was prepared to do, did it
superbly, hung up his sword and filled his final years with quiet service to his
country and to the cause of peace.
Repeatedly urged to write his wartime memoirs, Admiral Nimitz just as re-
peatedly refused. To do so, he explained, would compel him either to hurt the
reputations of some fine shipmates or tell some whopping lies.
His own philosophy, in his own words, has long been a personal inspiration
to me. Typically, he credited it to his seafaring grandfather. “The sea, like life
633
