[110]
February 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
110
Informal Exchange at the Jackie Gleason Inverrary Classic in
Lauderhill, Florida. February 26, 1975
MR. GLEASON. Ladies and gentlemen, as you all know we are honored with the
President of the United States, and he would like to say a few words to you.
The President.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, thank you very much, Jackie.
I don't know a day since last August where I have had a more enjoyable, a
more wonderful time than today in this great tournament with you and Bob
Hope and Elliott Kahn and Jack Nicklaus. You know, this is just one of those
things that I will always remember, and I thank you and the others who are
participating.
I-going a long time back-have great respect for excellence. And I was
playing with some people today who epitomize that: you and Bob, in the field
of entertainment, the unquestioned excellence in the field that you excel so
beautifully in; Elliott Kahn, a young man who has done superbly in the busi-
ness world, again excellence; and the one I envy the most-it is not you.
MR. GLEASON. I know.
THE PRESIDENT. It is not Hope.
MR. GLEASON. I know.
THE PRESIDENT. It is not Elliott. If I could just be half as good as Jack Nick-
laus-[laughter-
A long time ago back when the ball was round in football, I played a little
football against another school in the Big Ten. And I loved the competition,
because Ohio State always represented great skill, great competence, tremendous
competitive urge, and so forth. And as much as I hate to lose to them, I think
they represent the best.
And of course, Jack Nicklaus in golf represents the finest. And Jack, to play
with you today and have you break the course record was a great thrill for me.
You and I didn't contribute one thing to our score.
MR. GLEASON. Yes we did; you broke a record today.
THE PRESIDENT. What did I do?
MR. GLEASON. We went around the entire course, and there was not one dis-
sident voice or sign throughout the entire area. And that is a record.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I just want to thank you and everybody that was re-
300
