[365]
June 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
Above all, he knows what America is all about and what it actually stands for,
and he knows our role in international affairs. The challenges that the United
Nations now confronts are of tremendous consequence for our own future
and for the entire world.
Our Representative must be a person of high ideals and steadfast purpose.
Ambassador Moynihan is the right man for the job.
The United States was the chief architect of the United Nations. We joined
with others during the dreadful suffering of World War II to conceive an or-
ganization for peace and to serve all mankind.
We have been determined supporters of the United Nations, and we will
continue to be so in the future. There is no other course, as I see it, consistent
with our advocacy of peace and justice for all humanity.
As the need for worldwide cooperation developed, so did the inherent
difficulty in finding practical solutions which must advance the enlightened
self-interest of the United States as well as the interests of others.
We face not only the fundamental task of maintaining international peace
and security but also entirely new problems for world economic interdependence.
We must deal with new political problems as developing nations press for-
ward vigorously to correct what they see as injustices. In this developing situa-
tion, we will concentrate on practical and mutually beneficial projects and we
will strive for universal cooperation.
We will engage at the United Nations in a dialog of candor and directness
and of understanding and respect for the concerns of all member nations. We
will seek concrete achievement. We will work with firmness and with patience
in a determined effort to foster mutually beneficial relations with the develop-
ing world.
At the same time, we will firmly resist efforts by any group of countries to
exploit the machinery of the United Nations for narrow political interests or
for parliamentary manipulation.
Ambassador Moynihan takes on this very serious responsibility at a time
when a vast and vital agenda is before the world; the realization of agreed goals
in the area of food and population, the resolution of international conflicts, the
strengthening of peacekeeping forces, and a new law of the sea treaty, and of
course, economic prosperity for all.
Ambassador Moynihan will carry on in the very high tradition of Ambassa-
dor Scali and his other distinguished predecessors. He will have my complete
support and that of Secretary Kissinger. His service at the United Nations will
896
