April 18
[196]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
These proposals are designed to allow railroads, airlines, and trucking firms to
lower their rates. Increased competition will also result in more efficient utiliza-
tion of energy and savings to the consumer.
Stimulation of competition is the goal of another legislative proposal. The
financial institutions act-which I have already sent to the Congress-it proposes,
for example, the removal of some outdated constraints on services and rates
which banks and savings institutions offer to consumers.
As many of you know, present regulations make it easier to obtain higher
interest rates for the large depositor than the small depositor. Banks, in our
judgment, should be allowed to compete for the small investor's dollar. This
legislation would facilitate that.
If approved by the Congress, this act would open up new sources of deposits
and increase the lending power of financial institutions. The increased financial
flexibility will obviously provide an economic boost and give the average con-
sumer a better opportunity to earn good interest from his savings.
Marketplace competition would definitely be improved by increasing con-
sumer information. The better informed the purchaser, the more competitive
producers must become. All of the initiatives toward deregulation should be
accompanied by vigorous enforcement of antitrust laws. Vigorous antitrust action
must be part of the effort to promote competition.
A number of industries were made exempt from these controls; others were
not. Like many government interventions in the market system, the exemptions
were enacted in response to various economic difficulties, real or imagined, with
little or no thought to the long-run impact or effect. The time has come, as we
see it, to reconsider these exemptions and to discontinue those that cannot be
fully justified.
Reevaluation of another counterproductive pattern-so-called fair trade
laws--is underway in many State legislatures. New Hampshire is one of the
States where these outdated laws have been repealed. These State laws are
sanctioned by Federal statutes, and they permit manufacturers to dictate the
prices at which retailers must sell their goods.
Those of you who live in Maine and Massachusetts understand well what
these laws cost you as consumers. Altogether, fair trade laws cost Americans an
estimated $2 billion in higher prices each year. The State legislative repeal move-
ment, which is underway, is encouraging. But the Congress should act to remove
the Federal laws that allow States to honor these practices. Senator Edward
Brooke of Massachusetts has proposed such legislation, which we support.
In coming weeks, the Administration will propose legislation to permit legiti-
523
