[108]
February 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
As we look back, energy was once relatively cheap in America. As a matter
of fact, in 1970 we were paying about $3 billion a year for foreign oil imports.
Last
year
it was $24 to $25 billion, and if we do not do anything about the prob-
lem, it will be $32 billion a year by 1977.
Well, the day of cheap energy in America is gone. We must conserve through
the development and the application of improved technology, but we must have
more efficient means for energy conversion, transmission, distribution, storage,
as well as utilization.
What I am saying is simply this: We must solve our energy problems, and what
the Governor said at the outset is so true. There is no easy answer. Every pro-
gram—I don't care whose it is—will require sacrifice, will require to some extent
a change in our day-to-day living.
But if this country is to maintain its strength, its invulnerability, and its great
opportunities for the future, we must move ahead with a solution.
I can assure you that we in the executive department, I and my associates,
will do our part. I believe in the final analysis the Congress will do its part. What
we need is the strong support and understanding of people all over the country.
I think we have to ask ourselves, individually as well as collectively, the
following: Will future generations say that we in the 1970's met that challenge?
Will they say this was the year of the decline and the fall of the American dream,
or will they say that we were worthy of their trust?
I think we can and will be worthy of their trust. I call upon everybody, those
here as well as elsewhere, to join with the Congress and myself in confronting
the changes before us and in conquering the challenges ahead.
This is important so that we may say to those who follow, "We strengthened
our place in the sun, we faced up to our responsibilities, and we succeeded.”
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:40 p.m. in the Convention Hall at the Diplomat Hotel.
109
The President's News Conference of
February 26, 1975
The President. Good morning. First, let me express my appreciation to the
people of Florida for their hospitality. It has been a pleasure being here, and I
look forward to the rest of the day.
288
