[392]
July 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
There was agreement that competition should be relied on whenever possible
and that where regulation is unnecessary, it should be avoided. Also, there was a
persistent concern expressed by this group that some Government regulation
costs the country more than it returns in benefits and that the regulatory process
often benefits special interests at the expense of the general public.
Finally, there was consensus that the important public service role of the com-
missions must be reflected in the attitude of the regulators and the welfare of the
consumer must also always be the first concern on their minds.
I have a strong belief that the cost which regulation imposes on private citizens
should be faced very squarely. Every citizen should be aware that in some cases
the cost in some cases means higher prices, reduced efficiency, less consumer
choice, and fewer imaginative ideas.
In calling today's meeting, I do not suggest that the problems reside exclusively
in your agencies or commissions.
Regulations that impose costs on consumers can also be found in Cabinet
departments and in the intricate, sometimes invisible web of laws and regula-
tions at State and local levels.
My Administration is focusing public attention on the need to eliminate or to
minimize unnecessary controls. We should recognize that occasionally Govern-
ment policies which appear to be in the short-term public interest are in fact
detrimental to long-term consumer interests.
I am asking for your continued and intensified help in identifying ways the
commission can assist in our collective efforts to restore inventiveness and growth
in the American economy.
As we look for short-term solutions, we must also chart a course that perma-
nently relieves the economy of unnecessary long-term impediments. In some
instances, the circumstances which caused Government to institute regulatory
schemes have changed. You should be the leaders in identifying areas where
regulations should be eliminated or substantially revised.
You have been given by law extraordinary authority to regulate the economy
for the public good. With these unusual powers and responsibilities, you must
function as models of effective and open government.
There are four major areas that deserve very careful attention:
First, there must be a constant effort to improve each commission's ability to
identify the costs and the benefits of current and proposed regulation. You
should make sure that the quality of your economic analysis matches your high
standards of legal professionalism.
In particular, the costs as well as the benefits of restricting competition must
950
