June 11
[321]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
NOTE: The agreement and accompanying papers are printed in Senate Executive D (94th Cong., 1st sess.).
321
Remarks on Greeting Participants in the Annual Youth Tour of
the National Rural Electric Cooperative Association.
June 11, 1975
LET ME just say I am delighted that all of you are here, and I congratulate you
on achieving the success that you have in making it possible for you to be here.
I wish my daughter, Susan, could have been here today. She just graduated from
high school about a week ago. I know she would have thoroughly enjoyed talk-
ing with all of you, meeting you. She is out in Yosemite taking a course in
photography.
I think you might be interested in what her senior class did for their school
prom. They held it right here in the White House, while my wife and I were in
Europe. [Laughter] I am sure that the arrangements for that were very coin-
cidental.
Now, holding a prom in the White House might sound like a pretty super
idea, but it did create one problem. The headmaster or principal of the school
told me he got a call from a very, very concerned parent of one of the young
ladies. This parent called and said in a very serious manner that they had made
it a practice never to allow their daughter to attend a party in anyone's home
when the parents were away. [Laughter] But in this case they were going to
make an exception. So, after the prom we got a call from Susan, and she said the
White House was still intact and everybody had had a good time. And we, of
course, were delighted.
All of you come from areas where rural electrification is a very important
part of your society. For about 40 years the REA [Rural Electrification Adminis-
tration] has played a very vital role in bringing about the electrification of rural
America. When the REA first began—I don't recall the precise statistic, but
there was a very great lack of electrical power in our rural areas. And because of
the REA, we have gone from a minimum of electrical energy in our rural areas
to a situation today where I think we have electrical energy available for people
in almost every area of this country. And the REA can claim the major credit
for this tremendous effort.
Now, I want to ask this question-and all of you know the answer: Where do
we get electrical energy? You get it from the sources such as coal, oil, natural gas,
805
