February 4
[71]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
challenge their motives whatsoever—is rationing. But it is my very deep convic-
tion that it will not solve the problem.
To make the program work, we would have to ration not for 6 months, not
for 1 year, but a minimum of 5 years. And if we are going to have a 10-year
program to solve the problems of energy, which we need, you would look down
the road of a 10-year prospect of rationing. I do not think it will work that long.
Now, let me speak, if I might, in considering this alternative. It is estimated
that if the Congress legislates gas rationing there will be about 140 million
licensed automobile drivers in the country who would be eligible for their quota.
Incidentally, we have about 295 million gallons of gasoline available every day.
Now, if they were to cut back from their present average usage of 50 gallons per
month-that is the national average-to 36 gallons per month to achieve the
necessary savings, which is the saving of 1 million barrels of foreign imported
oil per day, that would leave each individual with about 9 gallons per week.
Now, what happens—and this is a very legitimate question—to those who
absolutely need more gas to get to school, to work, or to shop for food? There
would have to be machinery set up to administer the program and handle ap-
peals. And that machinery, we know from past experience, could range from a
vast Federal bureaucracy to smalltown boards to decide, for instance, who
would receive that extra ration, and would put an automatic system of redtape
at all levels and in every town and in the life of every driver.
Unfortunately, no group in this country is more familiar with Government
bureaucracy than low-income families who often must depend on Government
assistance to survive. Again, it is my deep conviction and judgment that ration-
ing would penalize low-income Americans, because those who needed extra
gas would be forced to buy coupons above the rationing quota from those who
would use less than the allotment.
The Federal Energy Administration estimates these coupons could sell for
about $1.20 for each gallon of gasoline, all of this on top of the existing price of
gasoline today. I think this is logical to conclude that it would mean gasoline
bought with those extra purchased coupons could cost as much as $1.75 per
gallon. We know that this would take a great big chunk out of the income
of the farmer who must drive 50 miles to the market or the commuter who must
use his car to get to work or the salesman who has no other way to reach his
customers or the millions of Americans who have become dependent upon their
cars for everything from their livelihood to their lives.
And yet, there is another unfortunate aspect of rationing—it would be the
emphasis on consumption instead of reducing consumption. Under the pro-
181
