April 10
[179]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
But the fate of all of these programs depends crucially on what we do at
home. Every month that passes brings us closer to the day when we will be
dependent on imported energy for 50 percent of our requirements. A new
embargo under these conditions could have a devastating impact on jobs,
industrial expansion, and inflation at home. Our economy cannot be left to
the mercy of decisions over which we have no control. And I call upon the
Congress to act affirmatively.
In a world where information is power, a vital element of our national
security lies in our intelligence services. They are essential to our Nation's
security in peace as in war. Americans can be grateful for the important but
largely unsung contributions and achievements of the intelligence services of
this Nation.
It is entirely proper that this system be subject to Congressional review. But
a sensationalized public debate over legitimate intelligence activities is a dis-
service to this Nation and a threat to our intelligence system. It ties our hands
while our potential enemies operate with secrecy, with skill, and with vast
resources. Any investigation must be conducted with maximum discretion and
dispatch to avoid crippling a vital national institution.
Let me speak quite frankly to some in this Chamber and perhaps to some
not in this Chamber. The Central Intelligence Agency has been of maximum
importance to Presidents before me. The Central Intelligence Agency has
been of maximum importance to me. The Central Intelligence Agency and its
associated intelligence organizations could be of maximum importance to some
of you in this audience who might be President at some later date. I think it
would be catastrophic for the Congress or anyone else to destroy the usefulness
by dismantling, in effect, our intelligence systems upon which we rest so
heavily.
Now, as Congress oversees intelligence activities, it must, of course, organize
itself to do so in a responsible way. It has been traditional for the Executive
to consult with the Congress through specially protected procedures that safe-
guard essential secrets. But recently, some of those procedures have altered
in a way that makes the protection of vital information very, very difficult.
I will say to the leaders of the Congress, the House and the Senate, that I will
work with them to devise procedures which will meet the needs of the Congress
for review of intelligence agency activities and the needs of the Nation for an
effective intelligence service.
Underlying any successful foreign policy is the strength and the credibility
of our defense posture. We are strong and we are ready and we intend to remain
471
