[319]
June 11
Public Papers of the Presidents
two Protocols so that ratification by the United States can be effected and in-
struments of ratification can be deposited without undue delay.
The White House,
June 11, 1975.
GERALD R. FORD
NOTE: The protocols are printed in Treaties and Other International Acts Series (TIAS 8227).
320
Message to the Senate Transmitting the United States-
Brazil Agreement on Shrimp. June 11, 1975
To the Senate of the United States:
With a view to receiving the advice and consent of the Senate to ratification, I
transmit herewith the Agreement between the Government of the United States
of America and the Government of the Federative Republic of Brazil concern-
ing Shrimp. Also enclosed are an Agreed Minute, a related exchange of notes
concerning compensation, an exchange of notes concerning interim undertak-
ings, and translations of the Brazilian notes. These documents were signed at
Brasília on March 14, 1975.
The Agreement establishes a basis for regulating the conduct of shrimp fish-
ing in a defined area off the coast of Brazil. Such regulation will help to con-
serve shrimp resources and will provide an interim solution to problems which
have arisen over jurisdiction over those resources.
The measures prescribed in the Agreement will safeguard the economic in-
terests of the shrimp industries of both countries and protect from prejudice
their respective legal positions on the extent of coastal state jurisdiction
over ocean fisheries under international law. The interim nature of the Agree-
ment reflects the expectation that this underlying question may in the near
future be settled by general international agreement on the law of the sea.
A more detailed explanation of the Agreement is contained in the report of
the Department of State which also accompanies this message.
This Agreement will contribute to maintaining and strengthening the friend-
ship and cooperation which have long characterized relations between the
United States and Brazil. I recommend that the Senate give it early and
favorable consideration.
The White House,
June 11, 1975.
GERALD R. FORD
804
