[50]
January 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
to hear, the right to speak, the right to publish and to read, and the right to
come together—all of which had been denied the early American settlers at one
time or another.
As for the other freedom, the right to petition the government for redress of
grievances, it is very hard for any of us who hold public office to imagine a time
when this was not permitted. But it was dangerous in America 200 years ago,
and it is in many parts of the world today.
I
am told that the total listening audience of the National Religious Broad-
casters exceeds 40 million persons and that religious broadcasting in this country
and throughout the world is growing at the rate of 20 to 30 percent per year.
This can be a tremendous force for good, for freedom, and for peace.
While the Founding Fathers never dreamed of radio or television, the per-
sonal freedoms they protected make your work possible. The electronic era of
communications, which is only beginning—as the age of the book was only
beginning when Gutenberg printed his Bible—holds unlimited opportunities
for those who today tell and retell the good news of God's love for man.
As President, I am no less concerned than George Washington was when he
observed in his Farewell Address to his countrymen, said, and I quote: “Of all
the dispositions and habits which lead to political prosperity, religion and
morality are indispensable supports. . . . The mere politician, equally with the
pious man, ought to respect and to cherish them. . . . Reason and experience
both forbid us to expect that national morality can prevail in exclusion of
religious principle."
You will note that the first amendment is stated entirely in the negative. It
forbids Congress—because its authors were more fearful of the tyranny of the
Parliament than of the King—to make any laws in certain areas of individual
freedom.
But President Washington urged all "mere politicians" to respect and to cher-
ish the principles of religion and morality. It has been my experience in the
Congress over the 25 years that most of us “mere politicians” really do.
In my first speech as President to my former colleagues in the Congress, I had
dedicated groups such as this one in mind when I said, and I quote: “On the
higher plane of public morality there is no need for me to preach. . . . We have
thousands of far better preachers and millions of sacred scriptures to guide us
on the path of personal right living and exemplary official conduct. If we can
make effective and earlier use of the moral and ethical wisdom of the centuries
116
