May 1
[225]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
June 1, 1975. This program will not proceed until public hearings are completed
and a plan is submitted for Congressional review, as required by statute. While
I intend to work with the Congress, and have compromised on my original
decision to proceed with immediate decontrol, the Nation cannot afford to
wait indefinitely for this much needed action. I intend to accompany this action
with a redoubling of my efforts to achieve an appropriate windfall profits tax
on crude oil production with strong incentives to encourage maximum domestic
exploration and production.
-Second, I will again defer the second dollar import fee on crude oil and the
$.60 per barrel fee on imported petroleum products in order to continue the spirit
of compromise with the Congress. However, I will be forced to impose the
higher fees in 30 days, or sooner, if the House and Senate fail to move rapidly on
the type of comprehensive legislation which is necessary to resolve our critical
energy situation. Such legislation must not embody punitive tax measures or
mandated, artificial shortages, which could have significant economic impact
and be an unwarranted intrusion on individual freedom of choice.
The administrative action that I have set in motion will help achieve energy
self-sufficiency by 1985, stem increasing vulnerability during the next few critical
years, and accomplish this without significant economic impact. Nevertheless,
my actions alone are not enough. The Congress must move rapidly on a more
comprehensive energy program which includes broader energy conservation and
actions to expand supply. Action now is essential to develop domestic supplies
and protect American jobs. It is my utmost desire in announcing these executive
initiatives to balance our overwhelming need to move ahead with an equally
important need not to force outright confrontation between the Administration
and the Congress.
I pledge to work with the Congress in this endeavor. To the extent compre-
hensive and effective legislation is passed by the Congress, I stand ready to ap-
prove it. What I cannot do is stand by as more time passes and our import
vulnerability grows. If this happens, I will not hesitate to impose the higher
import fees. Meantime, my administrative actions must fill the gap in this
endeavor. The country can afford no less.
Sincerely,
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters addressed
to the Honorable Carl Albert, Speaker of the House
GERALD R. FORD
of Representatives, and the Honorable Nelson A.
Rockefeller, President of the Senate.
611
