January 13
[26]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
step up their energy capacity. This will encourage capital spending and produc-
tivity, the key to recovery and growth.
As soon as the new revenues from energy conservation taxes are received, we
will be able to return $30 billion to the economy in the form of additional pay-
ments and credits to individuals, business, and State and local governments.
Cash payments from this total also will be available to those who pay no income
taxes because of low earnings. They are the hardest hit by inflation and higher
energy costs. This combined program adds up to $46 billion—$30 billion in
returned energy tax revenues to compensate for higher fuel costs and $16 billion
in tax cuts to help provide more jobs. And the energy conservation tax revenues
will continue to be put back into the economy as long as the emergency lasts.
This economic program is different in emphasis from the proposals I put
forward last October. The reason is that the situation has changed. You know it,
and I know it. What we most urgently need today is more spending money in
your pockets rather than in the Treasury in Washington.
Let's face it, a tax cut to bolster the economy will mean a bigger Federal
deficit temporarily, and I have fought against deficits all my public life. But
unless our economy revives rapidly, Federal tax revenues will shrink so much
that future deficits will be even larger. But I have not abandoned my lifelong
belief in fiscal restraint. In the long run, there is no other real remedy for our
economic troubles.
While wrestling with the budgets for this year and next, I found that at least
three-quarters of all Federal expenditures are required by laws already on the
books. The President cannot, by law, cut spending in an ever-growing list of
programs which provide mandatory formulas for payments to State and local
governments and to families and to individuals. Unless these laws are changed,
I can tell you there are only two ways to go-still higher Federal taxes or the
more ruinous hidden tax of inflation. Unchecked, Federal programs mandated
by law will be prime contributors to Federal deficits of $30 to $50 billion this
year and next. Deficits of this magnitude are wrong-except on a temporary
basis in the most extenuating circumstances.
Reform of these costly, mandated Federal spending programs will take time.
Meanwhile, in order to keep the budget deficit as low as possible, I will do what
I can.
In my State of the Union and subsequent messages, I will not propose any new
Federal spending programs except for energy. And the Congress—your repre-
sentatives in Washington—share an equal responsibility to see that no new
spending programs are enacted. I will not hesitate to veto any new spending
33
