April 11
[180]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
And may God ever guide us to do what is right.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:04 p.m. in the House Chamber at the Capitol. The address was broadcast
live on radio and television.
180
Remarks Upon Presenting the Robert H. Goddard
Memorial Trophy to the Skylab Astronauts. April 11, 1975
LET ME say it is a great honor to participate in the award on behalf of the
National Space Club. The Robert Goddard Award, of course, everybody knows,
is the ultimate in recognition for great achievements in the field of space.
I looked over the list of previous recipients, and it is a superb group of indi-
viduals, individuals who have contributed most significantly over a long, long
period of time, relatively speaking, to the success of our space program.
I can recall very vividly when the first vehicle was put in space, not by us but
by one of our competitors. And I can recall very vividly the relatively small part
that I played thereafter as a member of the select committee, Congressman
Teague, in putting together the new organization, which we now know as
NASA.
But, as a result of the reorganization of NASA and the excellent leadership
that followed by the space committees and NASA itself, the United States has
achieved a great role in space.
The Skylab is a great accomplishment, and it has proved, as all of you know,
a number of things. First, that man can live in space 84 days, preceded, of
course, by two other missions that went from 22 to 54 days. But in addition to
proving that man can live in space, it brought back, through the three missions,
information that is invaluable. We know a great deal more about space as
a result.
We have continued the great thrust of our space program, and I wish to con-
gratulate the leader of the third mission, congratulate him and, in turn,
congratulate the other eight individuals who participated in these three historic
missions.
I am glad to report that through Jim Fletcher's strong plea we have funded
the space program reasonably generously. Let me say that we will help in every
way we can to convince the Congress that they ought to keep it at that level.
Because of my experience both on the select committee that had some part
473
