[39]
January 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
now add more than $25,000 of equipment and plant. And that, of course, re-
quires adequate profit and adequate investment.
Profit margins have been gradually declining since the end of World War II.
Cash flow, as a consequence, has been less than adequate, especially in recent
years. This has meant that corporations have had to borrow very heavily to
finance capital investment. The financial capability of many corporations has
accordingly been strained. All of this is especially discouraging since output per
man-hour has fallen steadily for the last 2 years.
If we are to maintain our productivity, we must provide each worker with
the machinery and the equipment he needs to do his job with pride and with
efficiency. But in order to ensure adequate investment, we must end the down-
ward trend in corporate profitability.
My tax program, which was submitted to the Congress last week, moves very
directly in this direction, by leaving more business earnings in the private sector
where they can be invested in increased productivity and new jobs.
I call on you with as much hope and fervor as I can to join with me to change
these basic trends in our economy. And the first step is to get the process of
Congressional action started now.
And if I might interpolate for just a minute, I submitted a comprehensive,
action-oriented program, both for the economy and for the solution of our
energy problems. I recognize that in the Congress, with 535 Members, House
and Senate, there can be honest disagreements as to this part or that part.
But it seems to me that the Congress, individually or collectively, if they dis-
agree, should not nit-pick, should not pick on this part or that part. If they do
not agree, they ought to step up with a comprehensive alternative rather than
try to move in a backward way.
I can imagine nothing more disappointing to the American people than to
have the Congress deprive the President of the United States of a capability to
force action both in the economy and in energy, as some Members of Congress
are apparently willing to do.
And let me say, if I might, I am going to sign the declaration tomorrow to
force action by the Congress so that the country will have action, not limitations,
in the months ahead.
I happen to believe—as you can tell, I guess—that the economic and energy
programs that I proposed to the Congress can turn and will turn, in my judg-
ment, a period of danger into an era of opportunity. Through it, we can change
our course, we can help put the unemployed back to work, we can spur increases
in productivity and output, we can achieve energy independence, and through
80
