February 11
[84]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
vital factor into play. I refer, of course, to the legislative branches of our State
governments.
There is no doubt about it. America faces very, very grave challenges today.
And I have been very frank-you might even say somewhat blunt-in describ-
ing the seriousness of our economic situation to our people throughout the
country. I feel, as I am sure you do, that they deserve the unvarnished truth.
And for far too long in America, they have been given some sugar-coated
reassurances while pressing problems went untended.
As many of you know, I have always believed in action rather than rhetoric.
I have offered the Nation an action program to fight an inflationary recession,
to tackle the energy crisis, to create jobs, and to foster economic stability. I don't
pretend that my plan is perfect. But it is a plan. And so far, no one has come
forth with a better idea. There have been critics; we expect that, those of us who
have been in the political arena for a few years. There have been questions, and
we expect those questions. But no one has put forth a comprehensive, workable
alternative.
I think I can speak quite frankly to a group of legislators. Here is a copy
of the various recommendations incorporated in one bill for the solution of our
energy program: 167 pages. The title is: To increase domestic energy supplies
and availability and to restrain energy demand and to prepare for energy emer-
gencies and for other purposes.
This piece of legislation is the result of many hours of hard work by people
in the executive branch and many hours of hard work by myself, but it is a
comprehensive plan to meet the problem of vulnerability to foreign sources
of oil.
This is before the Congress. I regret to say—and I say it with sadness-the
Congress has been working on this piece of legislation, four pages, and the
purpose, according to the title of this bill, is to suspend for 90 days the authority
of the President to act.
Now, it seems to me that the American people want something that is a
plan for forward-moving action rather than a four-page bill to move backward.
And I say, in the strongest voice that I can and with the deepest conviction
that I have, the Congress ought to be working on this instead of wasting their
time on this. We need action. We can't tolerate moving backwards.
I said a moment ago, this may not be perfect, but it is a plan to save energy,
to stimulate additional production for a wide variety of sources of energy, and I
think the American people want something like this rather than a four-page
bill that goes backwards, not forwards.
217
