June 3
[302]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Extraordinary ties of friendship and kinship link our people. It is my pleasure
to bring to you, Mr. President, the greetings and the very high regard of the
people of the United States for Italy. In a world of rapid and dramatic change,
Italian-American friendship stands out as a symbol of stability and resolve.
I know that our meetings, Mr. President, will reinforce the traditional bonds
of affection and cooperation between our two countries, thus contributing to
our goals of peace and prosperity for Italy, for the United States, and for all
nations.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:41 a.m. at the
Palazzo Quirinale in response to remarks of welcome
by Italian President Giovanni Leone. Also present
was Prime Minister Aldo Moro.
Following his remarks, the President held a meet-
ing with President Leone.
302
Toasts of the President and President Giovanni Leone
of Italy at a State Luncheon in Rome. June 3, 1975
Mr. President and Mrs. Leone, Mr. Prime Minister, and Excellencies:
I am delighted to be in the Eternal City of Rome, the justly celebrated capital
of Italy.
It is a pleasure and an honor to be with you today in this hospitable and
historic palace. I am mindful of the symbolism of this visit underlining as it
does the traditional friendship and ties between our two countries.
We in America have just begun the celebration of the 200th anniversary of the
United States' struggle for independence. The very name “America” derives
from an Italian navigator. Among the Italian contributors to the early history
of the American Republic are William Paca, a signer of the Declaration of
Independence, Fillipo Mazzei, a close friend and collaborator of Thomas
Jefferson.
Since the very beginning of our country, the human ties between Italy and
the United States have enriched America's life, America's culture, and have
served to establish the basis for the deep and very warm friendship that exists
today.
For a quarter of a century as a Member of the United States Congress, I
served in our national Capitol building. As a result, I was mindful of the
contributions of artists and skilled workers from Italy to design, to construct,
and decorate our national Capitol.
The paintings, the carvings, and the statues of Italian conception and artistry
763
