June 17
[335]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
other area—in light of what it will do to free competition and individual
liberty.
This review will apply equally, across the board, to corporations that seek
special anticompetitive and monopolistic advantages from the Government as
well as to radical social theories that would collectivize American society and
American life.
Those who express disdain for profits and distaste for free competition pro-
pose nothing in their stead. American achievement under the free enterprise
system remains the envy of the world. I intend to do what I can to keep it that
way for the benefit of future generations.
Difficulties sometimes accompany advantages in any system where individual
freedom of choice and action prevail. There are tests of survival by the free
marketplace as a consequence. There are bankruptcies. There are spells of un-
employment. There are periods of rapid change and temporary slowdown.
Nevertheless, the march toward a better life and expanded freedom has con-
tinued in America for 200 years.
I see small business as the bulwark of free enterprise. You offer opportunity
to young people. Their ideas can get to the boss quicker. Their efforts are more
rapidly recognized—and rewarded. And they can realistically work toward the
day when they will start their own business. Young men and women can take
their fate into their own hands and make their own future. They will find small
business the very best training grounds for leadership, for responsibility, and
for independence.
Your businesses—and there are many, many more besides those represented
here are vital to America's future. You account for 43 percent of the gross
business product. You provide 51 percent of the private sector's labor force.
For America's sake, the present and future, I want you to succeed.
To restore a healthy business climate throughout America, to fight recession,
and to curtail inflation, I have started a process of regulation reform. The time
has come to cut Federal redtape that binds the hands of small business.
Let me share some memories from my own personal background. My father
started a small business, the Ford Paint and Varnish Company in Grand Rapids,
Michigan, a good many years ago. A few weeks after he went into business, the
economic crash of 1929 struck. My father persevered to keep our little family
paint factory going. As a youth, I mixed paint and labeled cans. But he sold the
paint. And he was his own bill collector. Let me say, if my father had to fill out
today's forms and comply with the maze of rules and regulations now in effect,
he would have had no time left to sell paint or collect bills.
829
