April 21
[204]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
East. I am not blaming anybody, but all of a sudden, they were thrust on my
shoulders. I had to make some hard decisions, some unpopular ones. And if I
had been an active candidate in the process of making some of those decisions,
individuals or newspapers or others could say, well, he did it for political
reasons.
I will make those decisions as best I can without having the handicap of
being a candidate for reelection. At some point I will make that decision.
But in the meantime, it is better for me not to be open to the charge that I am
making a decision for one political reason or another.
MR. SCHIEFFER. But you are saying to us that you may not be a candidate?
THE PRESIDENT. I didn't mean to leave that impression.
MR. SCHIEFFER. Let me ask you another question.
THE PRESIDENT. I certainly didn't mean to give you that point of view.
VICE PRESIDENT ROCKEFELLER
[11.] MR. SCHIEFFER. All right, let me ask you another question, Mr. Presi-
dent, along that line. If you are a candidate, are you locked into Nelson Rocke-
feller as your Vice President? There are some people, as you know very well, in
the right wing of your party, who just can't seem to tolerate Mr. Rockefeller.
Would you give any thought to another running mate if indeed you are a
candidate?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I picked Nelson Rockefeller for Vice President because
I thought he would do a fine job. He has done a fine job. A person who performs
well, I think, ought to continue on in a position of responsibility.
I see no reason whatsoever, at this point anyhow, and I can't foresee any,
where there should be any change.
MR. CRONKITE. If it were a matter of keeping the conservatives behind your
ticket in 1976, you would not dump Nelson Rockefeller?
THE PRESIDENT. In the first place, Walter, I think the public has a wrong per-
ception of Nelson Rockefeller. He is not the wild liberal that some people allege.
MR. CRONKITE. It is not the public; it is the conservatives in your own party
that have that view.
The President. Well, I happen to think that he is a very responsible public
official, responsible about fiscal affairs, he is responsible about strong national
defense, he is an excellent administrator. I really think some of the charges made
against him are unfair and unfounded.
MR. CRONKITE. And you will persuade the conservatives of that?
557
