May 2
[235]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
balloonist. The awards are for outstanding feats of individual pilot skill, worthy
of international recognition, contributing to the art and the science of flight.
In addition to Americans, the pilots of six other nations have won Harmon
Awards-Italy, Britain, France, Germany, Norway, and Switzerland.
Colonel Harmon, in 1908, was the first pilot to fly across Long Island Sound,
some 25 miles. He also set, during his career, several altitude records for his
day. By contrast, two of today's awards involve a round-trip Middle East flight—
some 13,000 miles—and a flight from Formosa to Scott Air Force Base in the
State of Illinois, almost 9,000 miles.
The humanitarian role of today's aviators, including the piloting of heli-
copters and big airlift missions, are often vital to life. Without our brave
American pilots, we would have witnessed, unfortunately, greater tragedy in
the recent evacuation in Vietnam and in Cambodia. We sometimes forget the
humanitarian aspects of aviation and the dedication of the pilots who are in-
volved. If it were not for Colonel Harmon, we would probably not be flying
oceans today. He is a true hero of America's progress in aviation.
It is now my honor to present the 1974 Harmon International Aviation
trophies to a half dozen new heroes-three astronauts, an aeronaut, and an
aviator—as well as the winner of the 1973 Harmon Aviator's Trophy.
First, the 1974 Astronauts' Trophy: to the crew of Skylab II, the first astro-
nauts in the history of space flight to accomplish major repairs successfully on a
space vehicle during a mission itself.
The flight took place between May 25 and June 23, 1973. Skylab II was
launched and made a successful rendezvous with Skylab I, whose aluminum
shield had ripped free, damaging solar cells for converting sunlight to energy.
The crew's repair allowed Skylab I to conduct 80 of its scheduled 100 hours of
extensive medical experiments in orbit.
The trophy is awarded jointly to U.S. Navy Captain Charles Conrad, Jr., now
retired from the Navy; Captain Paul J. Weitz, U.S. Navy; and Captain Joseph
Kerwin, U.S. Navy.
May I congratulate each one of you.
CAPTAIN CONRAD. Mr. President, Senator Goldwater, ladies and gentlemen:
It is the great honor of the Skylab II crew-Joe, Paul, and myself—to accept
this trophy in honor of Mr. Harmon.
Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. The 1974 Aeronaut's Trophy is awarded to Malcolm S.
Forbes for a series of 21 flights in a hot air balloon which crossed the American
629
