[243]
May 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
increased its rate by half a percentage. Can you tell the American people to-
night, makers of houses, potential buyers of houses—can you give them any
assurance that in the next months, the next year or two, more housing will be
available at relatively moderate prices and that interest rates will stay down?
The President. The most encouraging development in the housing area is
the fact that the inflow of deposits in the savings and loans has gone up very
substantially. It is my recollection that in the last reported month, about
$4 billion in deposits flowed into savings and loans, and that over the last 3
months, it has been a very favorable inflow into the S & L's. This means, of
course, that there is money available for home buyers, and it is my judgment
that once we start the upturn from the present recession, that the consumer
interest in buying homes will increase significantly and with the money avail-
able in the S & L's, I think, the prospects for an upturn in the housing industry
are very encouraging.
Q. Do you approve the FHA increase, Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT. I approve the increase, because if you are going to have FHA
handling of mortgages, if you are going to have the government guarantees,
they must be competitive with other interest rates. And I happen to think that
an FHA loan or a VA loan—either are very good, and we want those com-
petitive with the regular, conventional interest rates. And therefore, to make
them competitive, I agreed with the decision.
MISS LEWINE. Thank you, Mr. President.
NOTE: President Ford's thirteenth news conference
began at 7:31 p.m. in Room 450 at the Old Execu-
tive Office Building. It was broadcast live on radio
and television.
244
Memorandum on the Federal Cost Reduction Campaign.
May 7, 1975
[Dated May 6, 1975. Released May 7, 1975]
Memorandum for the Heads of Departments and Agencies
Success in the critical fight against recession and inflation requires the com-
mitment and cooperation of each of us in this country. The 4.6 million Federal
civilian and military personnel can play a major role in this effort by using their
creative talents and skills to provide vitally needed Government services and
programs as economically as possible.
During the past fiscal year, more than 197,000 civilian and military personnel
652
