May 6
[243]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
found that the best way to meet a personnel problem or to handle a serious
matter where a decision has to be made—that if you can keep cool, you can make
a better decision. I have learned that over a long period of time.
Q. If I may follow up, sir. You were described as very angry about those
rumors that you were going through a political charade and were secretly not
going to run-this story in the news magazine a week or so ago. How did you
express yourself?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I didn't shout.
Q. They said you were "damn mad."
The President. I didn't raise the devil with anybody. I simply indicated to
my staff that the stories were totally untrue, which they are, and that no such
meeting took place where such a policy was outlined by me.
I found the best way to handle the matter is to be very firm, very calm but
very forthright, dealing not only with my staff but with others. I think they
understand what I mean by the way I say it, but you don't have to shout to do it.
GUN CONTROL
[14.] Q. Mr. President, Attorney General Levi has proposed a banning of
handguns in high crime areas, and the Justice Department says that the White
House cleared that position before he made it clear. Does that represent an
extension of your proposal that the “Saturday night specials" only be controlled?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, it is my understanding that the Attorney General, when
he made that speech, indicated that this was an alternative way of meeting the
problem created by Saturday night specials. It is my understanding that he did
not recommend this as the way to handle the problem. I think it is a unique
approach, and it is being discussed with the Department of Justice within our
Domestic Council, but there is no firm decision on whether that approach or
any other approach is the right way to meet the problem.
Q. Do you expect effective gun control legislation to be passed, and are you
going to get behind effective control?
THE PRESIDENT. I am not going to recommend the registration of gunowners,
and I am not going to recomend the registration of guns, or handguns, I should
say. If we can find some responsible way to do it other than that approach, we
certainly will consider them.
HOUSING
[15.] Q. Mr. President, a growing number of Americans, lower and middle
class, are being priced out of the housing market. And now there is new
evidence that mortgage rates may be turning around-indeed, the FHA has
651
