[179]
April 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
tive authority to waive those restrictions on the trade act that are incompatible
with our national interest.
The interests of America as well as our allies are vitally affected by what
happens in the Middle East. So long as the state of tension continues, it threatens
military crisis, the weakening of our alliances, the stability of the world econ-
omy, and confrontation with the nuclear super powers. These are intolerable
risks.
Because we are in the unique position of being able to deal with all the par-
ties, we have, at their request, been engaged for the past year and a half in the
peacemaking effort unparalleled in the history of the region. Our policy has
brought remarkable successes on the road to peace. Last year, two major disen-
gagement agreements were negotiated and implemented with our help. For
the first time in 30 years, a process of negotiation on the basic political issues was
begun and is continuing.
Unfortunately, the latest efforts to reach a further interim agreement between
Israel and Egypt have been suspended. The issues dividing the parties are
vital to them and not amenable to easy and to quick solutions. However, the
United States will not be discouraged.
The momentum toward peace that has been achieved over the last 18 months
must and will be maintained. The active role of the United States must and
will be continued. The drift toward war must and will be prevented.
I pledge the United States to a major effort for peace in the Middle East, an
effort which I know has the solid support of the American people and their
Congress. We are now examining how best to proceed. We have agreed in
principle to reconvene the Geneva conference. We are prepared as well to
explore other forums. The United States will move ahead on whatever course
looks most promising, either towards an overall settlement or interim agree-
ments, should the parties themselves desire them. We will not accept stagna-
tion or stalemate with all its attendant risks to peace and prosperity and to our
relations in and outside of the region.
The national interest and national security require as well that we reduce
the dangers of war. We shall strive to do so by continuing to improve our
relations with potential adversaries.
The United States and the Soviet Union share an interest in lessening tensions
and building a more stable relationship. During this process, we have never
had any illusions. We know that we are dealing with a nation that reflects
different principles and is our competitor in many parts of the globe. Through
a combination of firmness and flexibility, the United States, in recent years,
468
