April 21
[204]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
MR. CRONKITE. Gracious, we have this hotline with a potential great power
adversary, the Soviet Union, and yet with an ally who is in dire straits at this
moment there is no communication between the Presidents. It seems strange.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, there is very good communication between myself,
our Secretary of State, and our Ambassador there. So, there is no lack of
communication, in and through proper channels. I don't think it is essential
in this situation that there be a direct communication between myself and
former President Thieu.
MR. CRONKITE. Might it help solve some of the misunderstandings if you
had talked directly to him?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think so. We have had communications back and
forth, both by message as well as by correspondence. I think we understood one
another. I think some of his comments were more directed at our Government
as a whole than directed at me personally.
MR. SEVAREID. Mr. President, one of his comments was that the United States
had led the South Vietnamese people to their deaths. Do you have any specific
reply to that one?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, there were some public and corresponding private
commitments made in 1972-1973 where I think that the President of South
Vietnam could have come to the conclusion, as he did, that the United States
Government would do two things: one, replace military hardware on a one-
for-one basis, keep his military strength sufficiently high so that he could meet
any of the challenges of the North; and in addition, there was a commitment
that we as a nation would try to enforce the agreements that were signed in
Paris in January 1973.
Now, unfortunately, the Congress in August of 1973 removed the latter, took
away from the President the power to move in a military way to enforce the
agreements that were signed in Paris.
So, we were left then only with the other commitment, and unfortunately,
the replacement of military hardware was not lived up to. I, therefore, can
understand President Thieu's disappointment in the rather traumatic times that
he went through in the last week. I can understand his observations.
MR. SEVAREID. Well, what is the relative weight that you assign to, first, this
question of how much aid we sent or didn't send, and his use of it, especially
in this pullback? Now, where is the greater mistake, because historically this
is terribly important.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, it is my judgment-history will be probably more
precise—but it is my judgment at the moment that the failure of the Congress
543
