[56]
January 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
Prayer is a very, very personal thing, at least for me. Yet, to me, as many of my
predecessors, it is a terribly important source of strength and confidence.
Now I am able to truly appreciate that statement attributed to Abraham
Lincoln, who confessed, and I quote: I have been driven many times to my knees
by the overwhelming conviction that I have nowhere else to go. My own wisdom
and that of all about me seeemed insufficient for that day.
President John F. Kennedy spoke to one of these prayer breakfasts a few
months before his tragic death. Many of you will remember his moving con-
clusion, and let me share it with you: "This morning we pray together; this
evening apart. But each morning and each evening, let us remember the advice
of my fellow Bostonian, the Reverend Phillips Brooks: 'Do not pray for easy
lives. Pray to be stronger men! Do not pray for tasks equal to your powers. Pray
for powers equal to your tasks.'
On the day that I suddenly became President of the United States, after all the
guests had gone, I walked through some of the empty rooms on the first floor of
the White House and stopped by that marble mantle in the dining room to read
the words carved in it-words that were a prayer of the first President who ever
occupied the White House: "I pray to heaven to bestow the best of blessings on
this house, and all that shall hereafter inhabit it,” John Adams wrote. "May none
but honest and wise men ever rule under this roof."
I am grateful to President Adams for leaving that message and to all who
have said amen to it for nearly two centuries.
My own prayer is for God's continued blessing and God's continued guidance
for our country and all its people whose servants we in government strive to be.
It had been my intention to suggest we have a prayer together at this point,
but Harold Hughes will follow. Let me just say, I hope at some time during this
day, each in your own way, if you think it appropriate, will pause to ask God's
blessing upon our Nation, our leaders in the executive, the legislative, leaders
in all forms of government throughout this country, and yes, to all our people.
And when you have finished, I think we can say that we should thank our
Father for listening, in Jesus' name, amen.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:11 a.m. in the
International Ballroom at the Washington Hilton
Hotel. Former Representative John Dellenback
presided at the breakfast, sponsored by the United
States Senate and House prayer breakfast groups.
In his remarks, the President referred to Repre-
sentative Albert H. Quie of Minnesota and former
Senator Harold E. Hughes of Iowa.
132
