[54]
January 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
Working with Roy Ash and his people over a period of several months, we
went into quite a bit of detail on the budgets for virtually every department. Any
time that the guidelines of the OMB to a department were challenged by a
department, I personally got into it, and there must have been 150 or more
major decisions in the main, but some relatively small ones.
The point is that if we are going to make this program really work in 1975
and maintain a prosperity in 1976 and so on, I think we have to do something
on the expenditure side.
The energy program, of course, came to me in the form of a massive docu-
ment resulting from a year's study by the FEA and various other people, and
we spent again countless hours going through the various options that were
prepared for decision.
We have a list of legislative and administrative actions that are related to the
energy program, with assignments to each department and to each part of the
executive branch as to time schedule, prospective action or inaction.
It is a very comprehensive program, and we are having put in one bill all of
the legislative proposals. Roy Ash told us this morning that there would be 700
pages. We are doing this because we want it to be, as it is, a comprehensive
approach to the problem of energy.
There probably are 30 or 35 individual bills, as I recollect. We could parcel
them out, and some would be 5 pages, some would be 40, and some would be 75.
I think it would destroy the impression as well as the substance that this is a plan.
What we intend to do is to take this document and put it up there on the
desk and say, now here is a plan that will solve the problem short run, long haul.
We don't mind you being critical of a part of it. But don't say that it is a plan
that won't work. You come up with something that is comparable, and when
you do, then we will talk about compromise, but you can't come up with one
piece and expect to solve the whole problem.
The gentleman from the Christian Science Monitor—I was reading a piece
on the back page with a wonderful line: We are not going to fiddle while energy
burns. I am going to plagiarize, if I can—and I don't want to use it without say-
ing I am plagiarizing it, but I think it is precisely right—we are not going to
fiddle while energy burns.
We are going to have a document, we are going to have a comprehensive
plan, and we hope if they are critical, they will come up with something that
is comparable in depth of the approach and the width of the attack.
I didn't get into any of the details. I know a few of the details, and I will be
glad to answer any of the questions, but in both cases I have tried to emphasize,
124
