January 29
[54]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
us to provide vital commodities, mostly food, under the Food for Peace program,
to assure adequate food for the victims of war and to prevent the economic
collapse of the country.
I know we all seek the same goals for Cambodia-a situation wherein the
suffering and destruction has stopped and the Khmer people have the necessary
security to rebuild their society and their country. These goals are attainable.
With the minimal resources and flexibility I am requesting from you, the Con-
gress, we can help the people of Cambodia to have a choice in determining
their future. The consequences of refusing them this assistance will reach far
beyond Cambodia's borders and impact severely on prospects for peace and
stability in that region and the world. There is no question but that this assist-
ance would serve the interests of the United States.
The White House,
January 28, 1975.
54
GERALD R. FORD
Exchange of Remarks During a Briefing for Economic Writers.
January 29, 1975
I HATE to interrupt all of you experts in the field of economic writing and
deprive you of a chance to talk to Bill and Alan and others, but I did want
to come in and just say a word or two to let you know that I have very deep
convictions about the need and necessity of moving ahead, not only in the
economic field with the plan that we have but also in the energy program.
The economic plan we spent a great deal of time on. We tried to balance
it with the tax reductions that we proposed, plus the need and necessity to tie in
to balance the holddown on the expenditure side. Unfortunately, most of
the emphasis so far at least has been in the tax reduction areas, with insufficient
emphasis on the expenditure limitations.
I am more optimistic that they will do 50 percent of the tax reduction and
not the other 50 percent, which is equally important as we look not only at
the short haul but the long run.
I not only spent a great deal of time on the tax alternatives but probably even
more time, because of the immensity of the document, on the budget. Fortu-
nately, I had had 14 years on the Committee on Appropriations, so budget docu-
ments were not new to me.
123
