May 20
[270]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
advise me that, if this bill were to become law, a production loss of 40 to 162
million tons would result in 1977. This would mean that six to twenty-four
percent of expected 1977 coal production would be lost. Actually, production
losses resulting from H.R. 25 could run considerably higher because of am-
biguities in the bill and uncertainties over many of its provisions.
The bill I sent to the Congress in February would have also entailed produc-
tion losses estimated between 33 and 80 million tons. Even though these losses
would have been substantial, we could have accepted them if Congress had
enacted the comprehensive energy program I proposed. But, now the potential
losses of H.R. 25 are intolerable.
The reduction in coal production would mean that the United States will be
forced to import more foreign oil. To demonstrate the seriousness of this
problem, it is estimated that we would be forced to import an additional 215
million barrels of oil a year at a cost of $2.3 billion for every 50 million tons
of coal not mined. At a time when our dependence on Mid-East oil is expected
to double in just 2½ years, I believe it would be unwise to further increase this
dependency by signing into law H.R. 25. This kind of setback in coal produc-
tion would cause our dependence on Mid-East oil to triple by 1977.
Additional reasons for withholding approval of H.R. 25 are its legislative
shortcomings. These include:
—Ambiguous, vague and complex provisions—as the record of Congressional
debate indicates. The bill would lead to years of regulatory delays, litigation
and uncertainty against the best interests of achieving either our environ-
mental or energy objectives.
-Cumbersome and unwieldy Federal-State regulatory and enforcement pro-
visions. H.R. 25 would inject the Federal Government immediately into a
field which is already regulated by most states. Since 1971, 21 states which
produce over 90 percent of the nation's surface mined coal have either
enacted new environmental legislation governing surface mining or have
strengthened laws already on the books.
-H.R. 25's tax provisions which would be excessive and unnecessarily in-
crease the price of coal.
-Its provisions which enable State governments to ban surface mining of
coal on Federal lands-thus preventing a national resource from being used
in the national interest.
-Its provisions permitting the Federal government to pay private landowners
80 percent or more of the cost of reclaiming previously-mined land, leaving
695
