[38]
January 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
38
Statement on the Geneva Protocol of 1925 and the Biological
Weapons Convention. January 22, 1975
I HAVE signed today the instruments of ratification of the Geneva Protocol of
1925 and the Biological Weapons Convention, to which the Senate gave its
advice and consent on December 16, 1974.
With deep gratification, I announce the U.S. ratification of the protocol, thus
completing a process which began almost 50 years ago when the United States
proposed at Geneva a ban on the use in war of "asphyxiating, poisonous or
other gases."
While the ratification of the protocol has been delayed for many years, the
United States has long supported the principles and objectives of the Geneva
Protocol.
The protocol was submitted to the Senate in 1926 and again in 1970. Follow-
ing extensive Congressional hearings in 1971, during which differing views
developed, the executive branch undertook a thorough and comprehensive
review of the military, legal, and political issues relating to the protocol. As a
result, we have defined a new policy to govern any future use in war of riot
control agents and chemical herbicides. While reaffirming the current U.S.
understanding of the scope of the protocol as not extending to riot control
agents and chemical herbicides, I have decided that the United States shall
renounce as a matter of national policy:
(1) first use of herbicides in war except use, under regulations applicable to
their domestic use, for control of vegetation within U.S. bases and installa-
tions or around their immediate defensive perimeters,
(2) first use of riot control agents in war except in defensive military modes
to save lives, such as use of riot control agents in riot situations, to reduce
civilian casualties, for rescue missions, and to protect rear area convoys.
This policy is detailed in the Executive order which I will issue today. The
order also reaffirms our policy established in 1971 that any use in war of chemical
herbicides and riot control agents must be approved by me in advance.
I am very pleased to have signed a second international agreement, entitled
the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production and
Stockpiling of Bacteriological (Biological) and Toxin Weapons and on Their
Destruction. This is the first such agreement since World War II to provide
for the actual elimination of an entire class of weapons. As you may recall, the
74
