[129]
March 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
system of politics and government, and above all, for the future of this great
Republic.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:20 p.m. in the
International Ballroom at the Washington Hilton
Hotel. In his remarks, he referred to Mary Louise
Smith, chairman, and Richard D. Obenshain, co-
chairman, Republican National Committee; Repre-
sentative Guy Vander Jagt, chairman, National Re-
publican Congressional Committee; Senator Ted
Stevens, chairman, National Republican Senate Com-
mittee; and Gov. Christopher Bond of Missouri,
chairman, Republican Governors' Association.
130
Message on the Observance of Black Press Week.
March 10, 1975
AS WE approach the celebration of our national bicentennial, it is appropriate
that we pay tribute to the black press in our country. Since the early Nineteenth
Century, America's black newspapers have championed the cause of equal
opportunity and justice. They have staunchly defended the very principles on
which our nation was founded and sought full expression for those principles
in our daily lives.
I know that I am joined by countless fellow citizens during this observance
in giving special recognition to the crucial role of the black press in perpetuating
and preserving the legacy of freedom we cherish.
GERALD R. FORD
NOTE: Black Press Week, sponsored by the National Negro Publishers Association, was observed March 10-
16, 1975.
131
Remarks at the Swearing In of Carla A. Hills as Secretary of
Housing and Urban Development. March 10, 1975
Carla, Rod Hills, Mr. Justice White, members of the Cabinet, Members of
Congress, the Hills family, and distinguished guests:
I am in very good company in welcoming Carla into the Cabinet as Secretary
of Housing and Urban Development. Carla, Mr. Justice White-who is about
to administer the oath-HUD Under Secretary Jim Mitchell, and I are all
graduates of the Yale Law School.
Maybe I better not say that too loudly. I can imagine a dozen other prospects
starting to practice “The Whiffenpoof Song." [Laughter]
342
