March 19
[142]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
port, are justifiably proud of the many historic
initiatives achieved during my Administration.
These include the first industry-wide settlement
obtained under Title VII.
As a result of these initiatives, there is a growing
minority of thoughtful commentators who believe
that EEOC has begun to show signs of becoming
the effective law enforcement vehicle envisioned by
Congress when Title VII was amended just a little
less than three years ago.
Regrettably, this agency and particularly its
present Chairman have become a focal point of
controversy: controversy over the authority of this
Office, controversy over whether progress such as
that above-mentioned is, in fact, being made and
controversy as to whether, in view of the continuing
intense criticism, the public interest would be served
by my continuing as the administrative head of this
agency.
I recognize that the responsibility of this Office
entails creating an atmosphere in which effective
enforcement of Title VII can be achieved-a task
involving striking a delicate balance between force-
fulness and evenhandedness. I would like to con-
tinue to devote, in whatever way possible, my
energies in the effort to strike that balance in an
optimal fashion. I have, therefore, reluctantly de-
cided to, and hereby tender my resignation as the
Chairman of this Commission at your pleasure. In
addition, I also hereby tender my resignation as a
Member of this Commission, effective April 30,
1975.
I do this not because I agree with the intense
criticism leveled against this Office and this agency.
Rather, my resignation as Chairman is offered in
the hope that the current controversy will cease.
Attention must now be focused on the important
job that remains before all of us.
As indicated above, I will in the few weeks
remaining assist in providing the new head of
this agency with whatever guidance I can to aid
in giving this Commission the continuity of leader-
ship it deserves. Moreover, you have my assurance
that, as a Commissioner, I will continue to serve
you, the Congress and the people to the best of my
ability. You also have my commitment that the new
Chairman will have my unqualified support in his
or her effort to maintain the present momentum
towards effective enforcement of Title VII.
Finally, Mr. President, I wish to again thank you
for your many courtesies and for the generous
support extended by you over the last several
months. It has indeed been a privilege to serve in
your Administration. In this regard I am pleased
that you share my concern that the efforts of this
and other agencies at the Federal, state and local
level, will soon give rise to employment systems
compatible with Title VII's mandate-that there
be equal employment opportunity for all Americans.
Respectfully,
JOHN H. POWELL, JR.
Chairman
[Honorable Gerald R. Ford, President, The White
House, Washington, D.C. 20500]
142
Letter Accepting the Resignation of William A. Carey,
General Counsel of the Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission. March 19, 1975
Dear Mr. Carey:
It is with sincere gratitude for your devoted service to our Nation that I accept
your resignation as General Counsel of the Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission, effective on this date, as you requested.
For nearly three years, you have directed the office of the General Counsel
with energy, skill and a strong sense of purpose. Under your leadership, land-
mark decisions have been reached which have broadened the economic opportu-
nities of all Americans and have effectively enlisted the positive assistance of
employers in identifying and correcting discriminatory employment systems.
375
