[358]
June 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
enable American industry-with all its financial resources, management capa-
bility and technical ingenuity-to provide the enriched uranium needed to fuel
nuclear power plants.
I believe this is the proper and correct course for America to take. The alter-
native is continued Federal monopoly of this service at a cost to the taxpayers of
at least $30 billion over the next 15 years.
The enrichment of uranium—which means, in brief, separating the fission-
able U-235 in uranium from nonfissionable parts to provide a more potent
mixture to fuel nuclear reactors-is an essential step in nuclear power production.
For more than twenty years, the United States Government has supplied the
enrichment services for every nuclear reactor in America and for many others
throughout the world. Our leadership in this important field has enabled
other nations to enjoy the benefits of nuclear power under secure and prudent
conditions. At the same time, this effort has been helpful in persuading other
nations to accept international safeguards and forego development of nuclear
weapons. In addition, the sale of our enrichment services in foreign countries
has returned hundreds of millions of dollars to the United States.
These enrichment services have been provided by plants-owned by the Gov-
ernment and operated by private industry-in Oak Ridge, Tennessee, Ports-
mouth, Ohio, and Paducah, Kentucky. A $1-billion improvement program is
now underway to increase the production capacity of these plants by 60 percent.
But this expanded capacity cannot meet the anticipated needs of the next 25
years.
The United States is now committed to supply the fuel needs for several hun-
dred nuclear power plants scheduled to begin operation by the early 1980's.
Since mid-1974, we have been unable to accept new orders for enriched uranium
because our plant capacity—including the $1-billion improvement—is fully
committed.
In short, further increases in enrichment capacity depend on construction of
additional plants, with seven or eight years required for each plant to become
fully operational.
Clearly, decisions must be made and actions taken today if we are to insure
an adequate supply of enriched uranium for the nuclear power needs of the
future and if we are to retain our position as a major supplier of enriched
uranium to the world.
It is my opinion that American private enterprise is best suited to meet those
needs. Already, private industry has demonstrated its willingness to pursue the
major responsibilities involved in this effort. With proper licensing, safeguards,
884
