February 26
[109]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
internal security problem, and number two, if it is necessary for one or any of
the countries to maintain their national integrity or security.
We believe that in many areas of the world, a proper military balance is essen-
tial for internal as well as external security of various countries. And where
other nations, such as the Soviet Union, do sell or give arms to one country or
another, if another country feels that for its own security it needs additional
military equipment and has the cash, then we feel that it is proper to make a
sale from the United States to that country.
PROGRAMS FOR THE ELDERLY
[12.] Q. Mr. President, south Florida has a disproportionate number of
elderly persons, thousands of poor and elderly who are finding it hard to even
have one hot meal a day. How can we justify Federal programs that would
reduce or take away what little assistance they are getting now, particularly
when we continue to pump billions of dollars in foreign aid overseas? The ques-
tion they are asking is, when does charity begin at home?
THE PRESIDENT. Let's take the food for the elderly program. In this current
fiscal year the Federal Government is spending $202.5 million for that program
under the older citizens legislation, which is six times what it was 4 years ago.
Now, we will continue to monitor the situation, and if that is inadequate, we
will do our utmost to find additional funding.
But I think it has to be put in perspective that $202 million-plus is not an
inconsequential amount just for that one program, plus the other programs that
are aimed at helping our older citizens.
I feel very strongly that they should be given adequate aid and assistance plus
social security, and I should say that I have not recommended a reduction in
social security, but have recommended a 5-percent increase in social security
benefits, along with other programs.
WATERGATE PARDONS
[13.] Q. Mr. President, good morning. I wonder now that the sentences
have been handed down in the Watergate case against the former top adminis-
tration figures, how you would feel on the issue of pardon for those men, espe-
cially in the light of their contention that they have done nothing that is any
more wrong than the President under whom they served.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, it seems to me, number one, since they are appealing
their sentencing, that it would be inappropriate for me to make any comment
295
