April 16
[189]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
If those facts are presented, as we seek to do, I can assure you that the public
will be convinced that they are not inconsistent and confused. We intend to
continue those policies and that program.
SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY SIMON
[9.] Q. Mr. President, does Secretary Simon have a future in the Ford
Administration, or is he going to leave over some policy differences in the eco-
nomic sphere?
THE PRESIDENT. I have asked Secretary Simon to stay, and he has agreed to
stay.
INFLATION AND RECESSION
[10.] Q. Mr. President, to pick up Mr. Isaacs' question, are we fighting infla-
tion or are we fighting recession, and when did we make the transition?
[Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. We are fighting both. And if you go back to the economic
summit meetings that we had last September, I think you will find that we
said we had a problem in both areas. But in September of 1974, because we were
then suffering from 12- to 14-percent inflation on an annual rate, we felt a
greater emphasis had to be placed in trying to lick inflation.
At the same time, we fully recognized that there were certain potential
dangers with the economic situation, that there were some signals that a reces-
sion was moving in on our economy.
In January, when I gave the State of the Union Message and concentrated on
the economy and on energy, the situation had changed; inflation was beginning
to be less of a problem. At that time, the rate of inflation, if I recollect, was
roughly 9 percent. There had been some improvement.
On the other hand, we had had tremendous layoffs, a decided increase poten-
tially in the field of unemployment, and so we had to change the emphasis.
I still believe that we have to face the problems of inflation. The rate of infla-
tion, according to the last three reports, the CPI figures indicate were at about
7.2 percent on an annual basis. We have another figure coming out Friday.
I am optimistic that it is going to be better, but even if it is better, say the rate
of 5 to 6 percent, that is too high, and we are going to do something about it.
On the other hand, we have 8.7 unemployment. That is too high, and we are
going to do something about that, and we are encouraged. But it is a two-
pronged problem, and our policies are aimed at achieving success in both in-
stances. I don't think you can ignore one and overemphasize the other.
501
