June 25
[354]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
said he was going to be interested in all aspects of policy, both domestic and
foreign.
Yes, Mr. Warren [Lucian C. Warren, Buffalo Evening News].
1976 PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN
[13.] Q. Mr. President, would you update us on your own campaign plans,
when and how you plan to announce for the nomination and how much money
your committee intends to raise in the primaries, whether you expect to face
any primary opposition?
THE PRESIDENT. I did authorize a few days ago the filing of the necessary
documents for the establishment of a committee so that money could be col-
lected and disbursements could be made. Dean Burch was indicated as the
chairman and David Packard was indicated as the treasurer.
This organization is the foundation of what we intend to do, and within a
relatively short period of time, I will make a formal announcement that I will
be a candidate. I have said repeatedly for some time that I intend to be one.
We have taken one step, another step will be taken very shortly, and we
expect to raise sufficient money to put on a good campaign. It will be run
exactly according to the law, and I don't know whether we will have pre-
convention opposition or not.
It has always been my philosophy in politics that you run your own cam-
paign, you run on your record, and you do your best to convince delegates they
ought to vote for you—and the people, that they ought to vote for you. I never
really predicate my plans on what somebody else might do.
OIL PRICES
[14.] Q. Mr. President, I would like to ask you, sir, you said that if the
Arabs hike their oil prices or there were another embargo, it would be very
disruptive for the economy. You have also said recently that the recession has
bottomed out or is bottoming out. May I ask you what will happen to your
predictions that the recession is bottoming out if the oil-producing nations hike
the price of oil by $2 to $4 a barrel, as they are threatening to do this October?
THE PRESIDENT. If such an oil price were put into effect, it would have an
impact on our economy. It would undoubtedly have a much more significant
impact on the economies of Western Europe, Japan, and probably an even more
adverse impact on the economies of the developing nations. It would have an
adverse impact worldwide.
I think it would be very unwise for OPEC to raise their prices under these
875
