April 21
[204]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
not undertake any covert activities, and knowing at the same time that friends,
as well as foes, are undertaking covert activity, not only in the United States
but elsewhere. That would be like tying a President's hands behind his back
in the planning and execution of foreign policy.
I believe that we have to have an outstanding intelligence-gathering group,
such as in the CIA or in the other intelligence collection organizations in our
Government. But I also think we have to have some operational activity.
Now, we cannot compete in this very real world if you are just going to tie
the United States with one hand behind its back and everybody else has got two
good hands to carry out their operations.
MR. CRONKITE. Do you people mean by covert activities—I want to get clear
on this does this mean the use of the dirty tricks department to support
friendly governments and try to bring down unfriendly ones?
The President. It covers a wide range of activities, Walter. I wouldn't want to
get in and try to pinpoint or define them, but it covers a wide range of activities.
I just happen to believe as President—but I believed it when I was in the Con-
gress-that our Government must carry out certain covert activities.
MR. SCHIEFFER. Mr. President, what do we get for that, for these covert
activities? We hear about this business of destabilizing the government in Chile—
we didn't seem to help ourselves very much in that—the Phoenix program in
Vietnam, the secret war in Laos. Is it that we just never hear of the successful
ones?
THE PRESIDENT. A good intelligence covert activity you don't go around talk-
ing about.
MR. SCHIEFFER. Have there ever been any good ones?
THE PRESIDENT. There have been some most successful ones, and I don't
think it is wise for us today to talk about the good ones or even the bad ones
in the past.
It is a very risky business, but it is a very important part of our national
security, and I don't think we should discuss certainly I shouldn't discuss-
specifics.
I shouldn't indicate we have done this or done that. But I can assure you that
if we are to compete with foes on the one hand, or even be equal in the
execution of foreign policy with our friends, we have to have covert activities
carried out.
MR. CRONKITE. But how in a democracy can the people have an input into
what governments overseas they are going to knock off or what ones they are
going to support? It seems to be antithetical to the whole principle of democracy
551
