[53]
January 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
into the South in such large numbers that its army in South Vietnam is now
greater than ever, close to 289,000 troops. Hanoi has sent tanks, heavy artillery,
and anti-aircraft weapons to South Vietnam by the hundreds. These troops
and equipment are in South Vietnam for only one reason—to forceably impose
the will of Hanoi on the South Vietnamese people. Moreover, Hanoi has
refused to give a full accounting for our men missing in action in Vietnam.
The Communists have also violated the political provisions of the Paris
Agreement. They have refused all South Vietnamese offers to set a specific date
for free elections, and have now broken off negotiations with the Government
of the Republic of Vietnam. In fact, they say that they will not negotiate with
that Government as it is presently constituted, although they had committed
themselves to do so.
Recent events have made it clear that North Vietnam is again trying to
impose a solution by force. Earlier this month, North Vietnamese forces cap-
tured an entire province, the population centers of which were clearly under
the control of the South Vietnamese Government when the Paris Agreement
was signed. Our intelligence indicates, moreover, that their campaign will
intensify further in coming months.
At a time when the North Vietnamese have been building up their forces
and pressing their attacks, U.S. military aid to the South Vietnamese Govern-
ment has not been sufficient to permit one-to-one replacement of equipment
and supplies used up or destroyed, as permitted by the Paris Agreement. In
fact, with the $700 million appropriation available in the current fiscal year,
we have been able to provide no new tanks, airplanes, trucks, artillery pieces,
or other major equipment, but only essential consumable items such as ammuni-
tion, gasoline, spare parts, and medical supplies. And in the face of the in-
creased North Vietnamese pressure of recent months, these supplies have not
kept pace with minimally essential expenditure. Stockpiles have been drawn
down and will soon reach dangerously low levels.
Last year, some believed that cutting back our military assistance to the
South Vietnamese Government would induce negotiations for a political settle-
ment. Instead, the opposite has happened. North Vietnam is refusing negotia-
tions and is increasing its military pressure.
I am gravely concerned about this situation. I am concerned because it poses
a serious threat to the chances for political stability in Southeast Asia and to
the progress that has been made in removing Vietnam as a major issue of con-
tention between the great powers.
120
