[24]
January 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
is integration of women into the social and economic development of all na-
tions; and third, recognition of women's increasing contributions to world peace.
The relationship between the improved economic and educational status of
women and the improvement of communities in which they live is very, very
clear. Where women are held back, their families are held back.
The vast potential of women has only been partially explored. Opening up
new doors to approximately half the world's population is vital to solving many
of our international problems.
When we discuss women's problems, we are talking about people's prob-
lems. Women's liberation is truly the liberation of all people.
Robert Frost once described failure as "nothing to look backward to with
pride, and nothing to look forward to with hope." Women who are pressing
for their rightful place in society can do both—look back in pride and forward
in hope.
America's women are now in the frontlines of our national effort to rekindle
the spirit of our revolution—a spirit that, just 1 year short of our 200th birth-
day as a nation, still says all people are created equal, a spirit concerned about
the reality of those words.
International Women's Year is not just for women. It is for all people dedi-
cated to seeing that the highest potential of each human being is fully achieved.
I hope the Commission, which I will name together with leaders of the
Congress, will infuse the Declaration of Independence with new meaning and
promise for women here as well as around the world.
Before I sign this, Betty, if you have any words of wisdom or encouragement,
you are welcome to speak.
MRS. FORD. I just wanted to congratulate you, Mr. President. I am glad to
see you have come a long, long way. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know how to take that. [Laughter]
[At this point, the President signed Executive Order 11832, establishing the Commission.]
May I simply add, the women here, along with countless thousands of others,
have made this possible. And the efforts of these, as well as literally millions
around the world, will make this a successful International Women's Year.
We on the other side of the spectrum—us men—applaud your efforts, and
we urge you to continue in this very important effort.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:07 p.m. in the
Cabinet Room at the White House.
On April 2 and April 14, 1975, the White House
released announcements of the appointment of the
members of the Commission. The announcements
are printed in the Weekly Compilation of Presi-
dential Documents (vol. 11, pp. 326 and 377).
26
