[390]
July 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
with all the parties. Unless some progress is made in the negotiations, the
humanitarian plight facing the people of Cyprus, including particularly the
refugee problem, cannot be solved.
The United States will continue to work, at it has done continuously since
last July, as hard and as determinedly as possible to move the parties of the
Cyprus conflict toward a negotiated settlement. Recent U.S. diplomatic activity
in Ankara, Athens and Brussels has contributed to the start of a Greek-Turkish
dialogue which has defused the tense situation and hopefully laid the ground-
work for Greek-Turkish cooperation.
As we pursue our efforts, we want the continued friendship of both Greece
and Turkey, and our sympathy and concern extend to all the people of Cyprus.
We want an end to human suffering and misery, and the rebuilding of an
island where all can live in freedom and security.
At present, our ability to urge this view persuasively is compromised by the
erosion of our influence. I ask the Congress' cooperation and assistance, there-
fore, in enacting legislation which will assure that America's influence is not
further weakened and U.S. interests further threatened at this time of critical
concern in Cyprus and throughout the Eastern Mediterranean.
Sincerely,
GERALD R. FORD
[The Honorable, The Speaker of the House of Representatives, Washington, D.C. 20515]
391
Message to the Senate Transmitting Amendments to the
Convention on the Intergovernmental Maritime
Consultative Organization. July 10, 1975
To the Senate of the United States:
I transmit herewith for the advice and consent of the Senate amendments to
articles 10, 16, 17, 18, 20, 28, 31 and 32 of the Convention on the Intergovern-
mental Maritime Consultative Organization (IMCO), which were adopted on
October 17, 1974, by the Assembly of IMCO at its fifth extraordinary session
held at London from October 16 to 18, 1974.
These amendments enlarge the membership of the IMCO Council from
eighteen to twenty-four, insure equitable geographic representation of member
States on the Council, and open participation on the Maritime Safety Commit-
tee to all members of the Organization.
948
