February 4
[72]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
40 percent in the next 5 years, which means we will get 40 percent more miles
per gallon and still have a higher emission standard than we have today in our
automobiles that are sold throughout the country.
Now, in the case of the Clean Air Act that would permit the utilities that are
now using oil to go to coal, we have asked for some postponement. We have not
abandoned the goal, but in order to cut down our importation of foreign oil, we
have asked the Congress—and the head of EPA, Russell Train, has agreed—
that this is a reasonable request.
I think under the crisis we face, a short stretchout is understandable and
desirable in this area. So, I have not abandoned any improvement in our clean
air efforts. I have simply, in the one case, moved up to the California standard
and, in the other, stretched out the situation to some extent. This, in my opinion,
is a realistic approach, a proper balancing of environmental needs and energy
demands.
I can assure you that in our judgment it is a reasonable position and it is wholly
agreed to by Mr. Train, the head of the Environmental Protection Agency.
ECONOMIC STIMULANTS
[16.] Q. Mr. President, Philip Shabecoff, the New York Times. Sir, your
economic policies apparently would allow a high rate of unemployment for years
to come in order to prevent a new round of inflation. Sir, isn't there some
approach you could take other than this that would avoid this human suffering?
THE PRESIDENT. The proposal that I have submitted to the Congress provides
for a very substantial stimulant to get us out of the current recession. I hope the
Congress will act quickly, and the quicker the better. That will be the best
demonstration of what the President and the Congress can do to turn the direc-
tion of our economy from a recession to an improvement.
It is my judgment that any additional stimulant at this time could lead to the
kind of inflation that we fought so hard to overcome for the last 12 months. If
we were to substantially increase-I emphasize "substantially increase"-the
deficit of $52 billion, it could provide a tremendous stimulant, but what would
that do?
It would probably dry up our financial markets, with Uncle Sam going in to
borrow $60 to $70 billion in 12 months, plus $30-some billion in this fiscal year.
It would probably force interest rates high again, instead of the trend we are
on now with lower interest rates. And it undoubtedly, with high interest rates,
hard-to-get credit, and higher and higher inflation, would start us right down
193
