[121]
March 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
—I have directed the Administrator of the Federal Energy Administration to
use existing legal authorities to adjust the price increases for petroleum
products so that the added costs of the import fees will be equitably dis-
tributed between gasoline prices and the prices for other petroleum prod-
ucts, such as heating oil. These adjustments for gasoline will not be perma-
nent, and will be phased out.
-To assist farmers, I am proposing a further tax measure that will rebate all
of the increased fuel costs from the new import fees for off-road farm use.
This particular rebate program will also be phased out. This proposal which
would be retroactive to the date of the new import fee schedule, will sub-
stantially lessen the adverse economic impact on agricultural production,
and will reduce price increases in agricultural products.
These actions will ease the adjustment to my conservation program in critical
sectors of the Nation while still achieving the necessary savings in petroleum
imports.
Some have criticized the impact of my program and called for delay. But
the higher costs of the added import fees would be more than offset for most
families and businesses if Congress acted on the tax cuts and rebates I proposed
as part of my comprehensive energy program.
The costs of failure to act can be profound. Delaying enactment of my com-
prehensive program will result in spending nearly $2.5 billion more on petro-
leum imports this year alone.
If we do nothing, in two or three years we may have doubled our vulnerability
to a future oil embargo. The effects of a future oil embargo by foreign suppliers
would be infinitely more drastic than the one we experienced last winter. And
rising imports will continue to export jobs that are sorely needed at home, will
drain our dollars into foreign hands and will lead to much worse economic
troubles than we have now.
Our present economic difficulty demands action. But it is no excuse for
delaying an energy program. Our economic troubles came about partly be-
cause we have had no energy program to lessen our dependence on expensive
foreign oil.
The Nation deserves better than this. I will do all within my power to work
with the Congress so the people may have a solution and not merely a delay.
In my State of the Union Message, I informed the Congress that this country
required an immediate Federal income tax cut to revive the economy and
reduce unemployment.
314
