[69]
February 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
as well as a fuller development of our own energy resources right here at home.
The Presidential proclamation [4341] which I signed to raise the tax on im-
ported oil is a start in the direction of conservation. And I think it has also helped
to move the Congress to affirmative action.
Yes, I concede there can be honest differences on the details. But I am con-
vinced that if I had not taken this action in the first place, there would be no real
movement in the Congress at this time toward the hard and very critical de-
cisions which are vital to our long-range survival.
Today, this is no longer true. Across America, as well as on Capitol Hill, there
is a growing national consensus on the critical nature of the energy problems
and on a willingness to accept hardships to solve them. I think this, in and of
itself, is a giant step forward, and if I might, let me give you the three basic
fundamental things that I tried to do in the submission of a comprehensive
plan to the Congress.
Number one, supply. What we are trying to do is stimulate more energy
development in the United States so that instead of a decreasing capability, we
have an increasing domestic capability to meet the problem of energy. We are
not only going to stimulate more exploration and development of domestic
crude oil but we are going to try and utilize to a greater degree the vast coal
reserves that exist in America.
We have increased, for example, in the budget that I submitted today to the
Congress, research and development on energy from $1.6 billion in the current
fiscal year to $2.2 billion in the next fiscal year. And if you will compare it to
a year ago, when the total energy research and development was about $700–
$800 million, in the next fiscal year with the concurrence of Congress, we will
spend $2.2 billion on solar, geothermal, et cetera, so that we can be less vul-
nerable to foreign nation actions as to the availability of our supply of energy.
Conservation, the second point. I think it is important that we save a million
barrels of foreign oil a day this year and 2 million barrels by 1977. It is attain-
able; it is mandatory that we achieve that result. And with the program that I
have recommended, which I hope the Congress will approve, we can save that
much in foreign oil imports.
Equity, the third point. Yes, it is true that we will have some higher energy
costs. But the truth is that we will return in tax rebates or tax reductions the
money that is collected because of higher energy costs.
State and local units of government, Governor, and Mayor Jackson, will get
back $2 billion this year because of higher energy costs under the general revenue
sharing formula. Individual taxpayers will get back $19.5 billion because of the
170
