[85]
February 11
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. Well, there is some good news and some bad news. I think we
have made more headway than if I had stayed in Washington and written them
letters. I think they now understand the program, which was a major reason for
my meeting with them individually in 3- and 4-hour sessions. I think they have
a better understanding of the program, and there is more support now than there
was before.
I don't hear many Governors calling for gas rationing, which shows very good
sense. I don't hear many Governors calling for arbitrary allocation, because they
realize, as I do, that arbitrary allocation or quotas—they would be the most
harmful method of achieving conservation and would have a terribly depressing
impact on our economy.
So, they understand the program. Therefore, I think they are more supportive,
although some of them have some reservations about a part here and a part there.
I must say that I did not hear a single Governor, in all the ones I met with, who
endorsed what the Congress is trying to force on me. The Governors understand
you have to make progress, and they know that this bill that the Congress is
working on is a bill that is a backward step. So, even though they may have some
reservations about a part here and a part there in my program, I think they are
more for this than they are for what the Congress is allegedly working on.
PRESIDENT THIEU OF THE REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
[12.] Q. Mr. President, I understand that your advance planning schedule
shows a tentative visit by President Thieu to this country in late April. Can
you tell us if you are seriously considering such an invitation and why?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, Mr. Beckman [Aldo Beckman, Chicago Tribune],
I am not familiar with any invitation. I am not familiar with any prospective
visit.
Q. Would you consider inviting Mr. Thieu to this country?
THE PRESIDENT. I really had not thought of it, and I know of no prospective
visit.
KANSAS REPUBLICAN PARTY
[13.] Q. Since Kansas is traditionally Republican, would you please assess
the health of the Republican Party?
THE PRESIDENT. Would you repeat that, please?
Q. Since Kansas is traditionally Republican, I am sure that many of our
citizens would like you to assess the health of the party, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I, as a Republican President, can't help but be im-
228
