February 26
[109]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
gressman Jim Wright of Texas, and the plan that has been proposed by Chair-
man Al Ullman of the House Committee on Ways and Means. And I under-
stand there are many more.
What we need is a plan that the Democrats can agree on, if they can, and then
we can sit down and, hopefully, negotiate. I am willing to cooperate, but we have
to have something to cooperate with. And so far, they have not come up with
anything where they are in agreement. So, until they do, we are going to
pursue our plan, which I think is fair and equitable and a solution to the energy
problem.
Q. Are you saying you need a single package plan from the Democrats before
you will negotiate?
THE PRESIDENT. I think that is a fair statement, and I think it is a fair prop-
osition. We have to sit around a table with a group or somebody, where they
say, "Here is our plan" and "Here is my plan." And then we can try to integrate
them. But until they have some consensus on their side, we are in the position
where there is no real viable plan for us to take a look at.
Now, I intend to keep the pressure on. The pressure that I have used in legal
and legitimate ways has precipitated more response in the Congress than any
time in the last 3 years. We still have some time, and when I get back to Wash-
ington, if they have got a plan where they agree, then we can sit down and
negotiate.
TAX REDUCTION
[5.] Q. Mr. President, some of the news executives who had breakfast with
you this morning report that you talked about Congress not acting on an anti-
recession tax cut until June. Are you really that pessimistic about the outlook?
THE PRESIDENT. I certainly hope that Congress acts before then, but I sub-
mitted my economic plan for the stimulation of our economy so we could reduce
unemployment, so we could increase employment, in January—I think it was
January 15 of this year.
And our proposal was very simple, and hopefully it would result in Congress
acting very quickly. It is almost 5 weeks now, and the House of Representatives
has not yet acted. I hope they act this week. Hearings probably will start in the
Senate Committee on Finance next week. And then it has to go to the Senate.
And then, if there are differences between the Senate plan and the House plan,
it will have to go to conference. That could conceivably take until June.
I think that is very ill-advised and extremely serious. We had hoped that
Congress would act by the middle of March at the latest, and they could have
if they had taken the simple specific tax reductions that I recommended.
291
