[389]
July 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
Both programs, in my judgment, are worthy of support. The department,
the executive branch does have more flexibility in the new provision, which I
can assure you will be judiciously and properly used.
I want to thank the Members of the Congress who participated in the recon-
ciliation of differences, and I certainly wish to indicate to them that we will
use this authority and handle this legislation and the funding to the best ad-
vantage of the tourism program in the United States.
And with that, I will thank them all again and sign the bill.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:07 p.m. in the Rose
Garden at the White House.
As enacted, the bill (S. 2003) is Public Law 94-55
(89 Stat. 262).
390
Letter to the Speaker of the House Urging Resumption of
United States Military Assistance to Turkey. July 9, 1975
Dear Mr. Speaker:
I wish to share with you my concern about a complex foreign policy problem
that relates to the deteriorating situation in the Eastern Mediterranean, the
threat to our North Atlantic Alliance relationships, the plight of the people of
Cyprus and the role of the United States. Both the Congress and the Executive
Branch share a responsibility to reexamine this critical situation with care. This
is not a partisan matter or one where the rights and wrongs of a decades-old
dispute can easily be judged-particularly by outsiders. Our overriding objective
must be to help in the peaceful settlement of a problem that involves two valued
Allies and a people whose history as an independent nation has been riven by
strife.
The strategic situation must also be weighed. At a time of uncertainty in the
Middle East, we should consider carefully any action which could add to the
tensions that already exist. Our facilities in Turkey and our mutual defense ar-
rangements have played and continue to play a vital role in the security of the
area and, more directly, in the security of our own forces. Mutual defense links
that have stood us well for thirty years should not be lightly cast aside.
I have spent much time studying these issues and have talked in Brussels with
the leaders of Turkey and Greece. I am convinced that U.S. and Western
security interests require the urgent passage by the House of legislation enabling
the resumption of our long-standing security relationship with Turkey. The
Senate has already acted favorably on a bill to accomplish this purpose.
946
