[36]
January 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the hypothetical question which was put to Secretary
Kissinger, a hypothetical question of the most extreme kind, I think, called for
the answer that the Secretary gave, and I fully endorse that answer.
I can't tell you whether Secretary Kissinger considered that part of the United
Nations Charter at the time he made that comment, but if a country is being
strangled—and I use "strangled" in the sense of the hypothetical question—that,
in effect, means that a country has the right to protect itself against death.
Q. Mr. President, would a new oil embargo be considered strangulation?
THE PRESIDENT. Certainly none comparable to the one in 1973.
NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE
[11.] Q. Mr. President, your fiscal austerity program—because of that, will
you have to abandon plans for a national health insurance?
THE PRESIDENT. Unfortunately, the “no new program” guideline that I laid
down does mean the deferral of any recommendation by me of a national health
insurance program.
BUDGET DEFICIT
[12.] Q. Mr. President, when you were minority leader of the House, would
you not have been horrified by a President who proposed to—who predicted a
$30 billion deficit and then proposed a big tax cut on top of it?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I am horrified as President. [Laughter] But unfortu-
nately, because of the economic problems we have-the recession-our revenues
have dropped very substantially. And because of the recession, we have had to
pay out substantially more in unemployment compensation and for the Public
Service Employment Act. The net result is that we were looking at a $30 billion-
plus deficit, whether we did anything.
And in order to stimulate the economy and to provide jobs and to get money
back into the hands of the American people, I felt that in these extenuating
circumstances that a tax reduction or rebate was absolutely essential, and I believe
that it is the right medicine for our current illness. And I think if we had done
nothing, the patient would have been in much worse condition.
REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM AND CAMBODIA
[13.] Q. Mr. President, does the state of the American economy permit
additional military and economic aid to Vietnam or Cambodia?
THE PRESIDENT. I believe it does. When the budget was submitted for fiscal
1975, in January of 1974, the request was for $1.4 billion for military assistance.
The Congress cut that to $700 million.
66
