January 15
[28]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
tive actions. They will be rescinded when the broader but necessary legislation
is enacted.
To that end, I am requesting the Congress to act within 90 days on a more
comprehensive energy tax program. It includes: excise taxes and import fees
totaling $2 per barrel on product imports and on all crude oil; deregulation of
new natural gas and enactment of a natural gas excise tax.
I plan to take Presidential initiative to decontrol the price of domestic crude
oil on April 1. I urge the Congress to enact a windfall profits tax by that date
to ensure that oil producers do not profit unduly.
The sooner Congress acts, the more effective the oil conservation program will
be and the quicker the Federal revenues can be returned to our people.
I am prepared to use Presidential authority to limit imports, as necessary, to
guarantee success.
I want you to know that before deciding on my energy conservation program,
I considered rationing and higher gasoline taxes as alternatives. In my judg-
ment, neither would achieve the desired results and both would produce unac-
ceptable inequities.
A massive program must be initiated to increase energy supply, to cut demand,
and provide new standby emergency programs to achieve the independence we
want by 1985. The largest part of increased oil production must come from new
frontier areas on the Outer Continental Shelf and from the Naval Petroleum
Reserve No. 4 in Alaska. It is the intent of this Administration to move ahead
with exploration, leasing, and production on those frontier areas of the Outer
Continental Shelf where the environmental risks are acceptable.
Use of our most abundant domestic resource-coal-is severely limited. We
must strike a reasonable compromise on environmental concerns with coal. I
am submitting Clean Air [Act] amendments which will allow greater coal use
without sacrificing clean air goals.
I vetoed the strip mining legislation passed by the last Congress.ยน With ap-
propriate changes, I will sign a revised version when it comes to the White
House.
I am proposing a number of actions to energize our nuclear power program.
I will submit legislation to expedite nuclear leasing [licensing] and the rapid
selection of sites.
In recent months, utilities have cancelled or postponed over 60 percent of
planned nuclear expansion and 30 percent of planned additions to non-nuclear
ยน See 1974 volume, Item 326.
41
