February 4
[72]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Southern and Southeastern States. They did raise that question, urging that I
release some of the deferrals or rescissions in the Highway Trust Fund. I mean
deferrals, not rescissions.
I have promised them that I will take a look at their recommendation. Some
of them said their States were ready to go, they could let bids within 30 days
and get construction underway very quickly.
I will talk to the Federal Highway Commissioner, former Governor Tiemann
of Nebraska, and will let the Governors know whether we think this is some-
thing that ought to be done promptly.
Q. Was Governor Busbee one of the ones who said he was ready to go?
THE PRESIDENT. As I recall, he and several others, including Governor Askew
of Florida.
JUSTICE WILLIAM O. DOUGLAS
[10.] Q. Mr. President, Bob Schieffer [CBS News]. I would like to follow
up on Helen's question. You told us the two officials who did not give you that
information. Would you tell us who did? And beyond that, can you tell us
what sort of information it was, and beyond that, what did you do with it?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the information that was given to me was to a substantial
degree included in the speech that I made on the floor of the House, which is a
printed document and has been widely distributed. The information was given
to me by Mr. Will Wilson, who was then one of the Assistant Attorney
Generals.
ARAB INVESTMENTS IN THE UNITED STATES
[11.] Q. Mr. President, I am Bobby Branch, and I publish a country news-
paper in Perry, Georgia.
THE PRESIDENT. What have we got-segregation here between the Wash-
ington press corps and the local press corps? [Laughter]
Q. Yes, sir. In view of the recent Arab oil interest investments in America-
and even here in Georgia, the State government is actively seeking Arab invest-
ments—I was wondering what your opinion was on the trend in this direction?
THE PRESIDENT. There have been some recent news stories to the effect that
the Iranian Government, for example, wanted to invest in Pan Am. They were
thinking of buying six TWA jets that were not being used. And there is a
story about one of the Arab countries buying a substantial interest in one of our
largest banks in the State of Michigan.
The Department of State, the National Security Council are looking into this
question. It is a matter, I think, that will require our best analysis and probably
189
