PREFACE
IN THIS VOLUME are gathered most of the public messages and statements
of the 38th President of the United States that were released by the White House
during the period January 1-December 31, 1975. Volumes covering the Admin-
istrations of Presidents Truman, Eisenhower, Kennedy, Johnson, Nixon, and the
first 3 years of President Hoover are also available.
The series was begun in 1957 in response to a recommendation of the National
Historical Publications Commission. An extensive compilation of the messages
and papers of the Presidents, covering the period 1789 to 1897, was assembled by
James D. Richardson and published under Congressional authority between
1896 and 1899. Since then, various private compilations have been issued but there
was no uniform publication comparable to the Congressional Record or the
United States Supreme Court Reports. Many Presidential papers could be found
only in the form of mimeographed White House releases or as reported in the
press. The Commission therefore recommended the establishment of an official
series in which Presidential writings, addresses, and remarks of a public nature
could be made promptly available.
The Commission's recommendation was incorporated in regulations of the
Administrative Committee of the Federal Register issued under section 6 of the
Federal Register Act (44 U.S.C. 1506). The Committee's regulations, establish-
ing the series and providing for the coverage of prior years, are reprinted as
Appendix D.
CONTENT AND ARRANGEMENT
The text of this book is based on Presidential materials that were White House
press releases, on material issued by the White House Press Office, and on
transcripts of news conferences. Where available, original source materials,
including tape recordings, have been used to protect against errors in
transcription. The items are presented in chronological order.
The dates shown in the item headings are White House release dates. In
instances where the date of the document differs from the release date, that
fact is shown in the note immediately below the item heading. Textnotes, foot-
notes, and cross references have been supplied only where needed for purposes
of identification or clarity.
Remarks or addresses were delivered in Washington, D.C., unless otherwise
indicated, and all times shown are local time. Similarly, statements, messages,
vii
