February 26
[109]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
STATEMENT ON DISCRIMINATORY PRACTICES IN THE INTERNATIONAL BANKING
COMMUNITY
[1.] Before answering questions, I have a short prepared statement that I
would like to make at the outset. It reads as follows:
There have been reports in recent weeks of attempts in the international
banking community to discriminate against certain institutions or individuals
on religious or ethnic grounds.
There should be no doubt about the position of this Administration and
the United States. Such discrimination is totally contrary to the American
tradition and repugnant to American principles. It has no place in the free
practice of commerce as it has flourished in this country.
Foreign businessmen and investors are most welcome in the United States
when they are willing to conform to the principles of our society. However,
any allegations of discrimination will be fully investigated and appropriate
action taken under the laws of the United States.
Mr. McDermott [John McDermott, Miami Herald].
QUESTIONS
THE MIDDLE EAST
[2.] Q. Mr. President, what was behind Dr. Kissinger's recent observation
that some day we might have to go in and destroy the oil wells of the Middle
East? Do you envision such a possibility ever happening?
The President. I do not recollect the precise statement that is attributed to
the Secretary. I suspect you are referring to the oft-quoted statement about
"strangulation."
I have answered that question, as has the Secretary, on a number of occa-
sions. To be repetitive at this point, I think, might only increase speculation.
The facts are that there was an answer to a very hypothetical question of the
most extreme circumstances, and both the Secretary and I have indicated our
views on the subject.
Q. Thank you, Mr. President.
REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM AND CAMBODIA
[3.] Q. Mr. President, is what you call our moral commitment to arm
South Vietnam and Cambodia open-ended? And what are you doing specifi-
cally to bring the warring parties to the peace table?
289
