February 3
[69]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
higher energy costs to the individual taxpayer. Business will get back $6 billion
because of higher energy costs to them; those rebates will come in a reduction
in the corporate income tax from 48 to 42 percent. The individual taxpayer will
get his refund or rebate by a change in the withholding schedules. The individual
who pays no taxes will get an individual check written to him or to her on the
Treasury of the United States. The Federal Government, whose energy costs will
go up about $3 billion, will keep that in the till, and Bill Simon needs it.
But the point is that we will seek equity so that nobody-government, business,
individual taxpayers—will suffer. There will be an equalization of the burden.
The last point, security. If this program is adopted, the United States, every
day, will get more certain of its invulnerability. It will be more certain of its
international security.
And so I plead with you to work with your Members of the House and Senate
to get some action. We have diddled and dawdled too long. We are not going
to fiddle while our energy burns. So, let's get moving.
Another example, I think, of newly forming national consensus is the grow-
ing public awareness of the danger of inflation and, linked to it, the need to
exert some sort of brake on runaway Government spending. Putting it another
way, for a long, long time we have been deferring payments on some of our
bills, and we now have a whopper that is due.
As you may know, I sent to the Congress before leaving Washington today—
maybe it is a good thing I am out of town—a proposed budget of $349.4 billion
in expenditures for the fiscal year that begins July 1 of this year. The projected
deficit for fiscal year 1976 will be $52 billion, a figure which would have horri-
fied me as a Member of Congress and horrifies me as your President. That is $1
billion-a-day deficit-$1 billion a week, I mean, not a day. It is bad enough a
week.
Well, for my part, I renew my offer to work with the 94th Congress to reach
mutually acceptable energy and economic programs. I have offered to them and
to the American people a plan. If the Congress will come forward with one of
its own-a full, comprehensive program, not just a series of individual criti-
cisms or conflicting pieces of legislation—I am sure that we can iron out our
differences.
We have already been apart too long, and the American people I don't think
are going to wait forever. I think it is time to launch America on a new course,
a recovery course. I have done and will continue to do everything I can to move
with the Congress to achieve this vital objective.
We can and I happen to think we will-solve our problems. There are
171
