[322]
June 11
Public Papers of the Presidents
of the State of Israel and Israel's understanding of the essential interests of the
United States.
Mr. Prime Minister, when we met in Washington 9 months ago, at the very
outset of my Administration, we jointly reaffirmed the need to continue our
intensive efforts for peace. We then recognized the importance of maintaining
the momentum of negotiations toward this end.
Having admired you as an Ambassador, we found it easy, I think, to establish
a good working relationship. We agreed that it was in our mutual interest that
these efforts succeed, and it would be a tragedy if they failed. I think we recog-
nize that stagnation would be most unfortunate in our work for peace.
We met today to insure that this does not occur, to seek progress toward a
truly just and durable peace, a settlement that is in the best interest of all of
us, in the Middle East. I consider the meeting this morning very constructive
and our conversations here tonight equally so. I think with perseverance we can
be successful.
Gentlemen, let me ask that you join me in a toast to the success in these
efforts to obtain a just and durable peace in the Middle East, to the close re-
lationship between our two countries, and to an individual of dedication and
courage in the service of his country, the Prime Minister of Israel.
Mr. Prime Minister.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:07 p.m. in the State
Dining Room at the White House. Prime Minister
Rabin responded as follows:
Mr. President, Members of the Congress, members
of the Administration:
Mr. President, I would like to thank you very
much for inviting me to Washington in the efforts
to do whatever is possible to move towards peace in
the Middle East. I believe that your interest, your
determination to do whatever is possible and to
explore all the possibilities that will lead these
complex conflicts in the area towards peace are a
sign of the great leadership of you and a few great
countries in the free world.
I would like to assure you in the name of my
country and my people that if there is something
that we are really eager to achieve, it is a real prace
in the area. We have tried for 27 years to do what-
ever is possible, or was possible, to achieve peace.
Unfortunately, peace has not been achieved. But we
believe that peace must be reached in the area. It
is in the interests of all the people who live there
and will serve to their interests. And therefore, what-
ever is done to move towards peace is more than
appreciated by us, by the people of Israel.
I am sure that in the course of the talks that we
have had and we will have, we will try to find what
are the best ways in which we can cooperate with
you, Mr. President, with the United States Govern-
ment, to move towards peace. But allow me to say
that peace, a real one, can achieve only by under-
standing can be achieved by compromise, but must
be achieved when the two sides that are involved
in the conflict would decide to put an end to it
and to establish the structure of peace.
The United States has served-and I am very
pleased and grateful to you that you are determined
to continue to play-a major role in the achievement
of peace. Israel has learned to admire, to appreciate
the United States and American people. In the last
27 years, we have gained the support, the under-
standing of the American people, and we are more
than thankful for what has been done by the United
States in supporting Israel and helping the cause of
peace.
I would like to thank you, Mr. President, very
much for your understanding of the problems of
Israel and the need, the urgency to move towards
peace. And I hope that through your efforts, we
would achieve what has not been achieved by now, a
real move towards a real peace.
Therefore, allow me to raise my glass to you, to
the President of the United States and to the friend-
ship between our two people.
808
