April 18
[195]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
grams. Many, unfortunately, are uncoordinated and, as a consequence, ineffec-
tive. Many of them are duplicative, not only in the service but also in the
bureaucracy that runs them. All of these related problems, in my humble judg-
ment, have to be reassessed if we are going to be true to the oath that we have
taken.
A close look at any program is not only needed to justify the expenditures
but to make sure that the expenditures go to the right people in the right
amounts. The American people understand that they pay for all this spending,
either through their taxes or through the inflation or, perhaps, both.
It is my judgment that this country is not great because of what the Federal
Government has done, but what American individuals have accomplished. I
think we have to take the American people back into our confidence and tell
them the truth, and the truth is this: The Federal Government can no longer
increase spending at the rate it has in the past.
I sound this warning with the utmost seriousness to the American people
here in this legislature, because you are a remarkable example of the early
principles and policies that made this country great. You have lived and you
have worked within your means.
New Hampshire is more than a State. And may I say parenthetically, I
think New Hampshire deserves its constitutional and full sovereign rights in the
United States Senate.¹ And if I may, again parenthetically, congratulate this
legislature for offering a sound solution that is in the best interest of the people
of New Hampshire.
As I said, New Hampshire is more than a State; it is a state of mind. As I see
it, it is the true “new frontier" of America because ideas, because principles,
because virtues have no boundaries. You have offered us the horizons of free
men and of free women, not those burying the Nation and our people in debt.
As I conclude, let me add just this: Voltaire once said, "Common sense is not
so common." Neither are granite principles and granite beliefs.
Thank you for the invitation. I am deeply grateful.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:20 p.m. in the House
Chamber at the State Capitol. In his opening re-
marks, he referred to Governors Meldrim Thomson,
Jr., of New Hampshire, James Longley of Maine,
and Thomas P. Salmon of Vermont.
¹ The President was referring to the contested 1974 Senatorial election between Democrat John Durkin
and Republican Louis C. Wyman which resulted in one of New Hampshire's seats being declared
vacant by the United States Senate on July 30, 1975. Mr. Durkin subsequently won a runoff election held
September 6.
517
