June 9
[316]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters addressed
to the Honorable Carl Albert, Speaker of the House
of Representatives, and the Honorable Nelson A.
Rockefeller, President of the Senate. The text of
the draft legislation was included as part of the
release.
316
The President's News Conference of
June 9, 1975
STATEMENT ANNOUNCING RELEASE OF REPORT OF THE COMMISSION ON CIA
ACTIVITIES WITHIN THE UNITED STATES
THE PRESIDENT. [1.] Good evening. On Friday, the Commission on CIA
Activities Within the United States presented its report to me. I read the report
this past weekend, and I have decided it should be made available to the public.
It will be released tomorrow.ยน
I thank the Vice President and the other members of the Commission and the
staff. It will be obvious to those who read the report that the Commission has
done an extensive job of looking into the allegations that the CIA exceeded its
authority by conducting domestic operations in violation of its statute. My
reading of the report leads me to the conclusion that the panel has been fair,
frank, and balanced.
I will ask the Attorney General to study all the materials gathered by the
Commission on any matter to determine whether action should be under-
taken against any individuals.
I am asking each of the Federal agencies and departments affected by the
report to study its recommendations and report back to me with their comments.
In addition to investigating the original allegations of improper domestic
activities by the CIA, the Commission, at my request, subsequently looked into
allegations concerning possible domestic involvement in political assassination
attempts. The Commission has reported that it did not complete every aspect
of that investigation. The materials they have developed concerning these
allegations have been turned over to me in classified form.
Because the investigation of political assassination allegations is incomplete
and because the allegations involve extremely sensitive matters, I have decided
that it is not in the national interest to make public materials relating to these
allegations at this time. However, under procedures that will serve the national
1 The report is entitled "Report to the President by the Commission on CIA Activities Within the United
States-June 1975" (Government Printing Office, 299 pp.).
789
