[268]
May 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
condition for granting financial assistance, to require applicants to undertake
fundamental restructuring actions. These actions will be governed by expedited
merger procedures under which the Secretary and the ICC can facilitate the
desired restructuring. I have directed Secretary Coleman to take all steps neces-
sary to cooperate with the Congress so that this important and vital legislation
can become law in the very near future.
In view of the rail system's role in our Nation's economy, I urge the Congress
to give this measure immediate consideration. The importance of regulatory
reform to the efficiency of our transportation system cannot be over-emphasized.
While special interests may resist these necessary changes, I am confident that
the benefits to the American people will be so great and so clear that the Con-
gress will act quickly.
The White House,
May 19, 1975.
269
GERALD R. FORD
Remarks on Greeting Participants in the White House
Fellowship Program. May 19, 1975
Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman.
I am pleased and honored to participate in the ceremony.
Before making a comment or two about the newly selected, let me thank
and congratulate those who have been in the program for this past year. They
haven't quite finished, but they are in about a month or two, I guess, to
finish or conclude their contribution to the Federal Government in the many
responsibilities that they have had in the various departments including, of
course, the White House.
But to the individuals who have just been selected, may I add, we are very
proud of you. You went through a very rigorous screening process. As I under-
stand it, there have been some 2,307 applicants. To have it winnowed down
to this selected group of 14 indicates that we have an outstanding group of
quality individuals coming from a wide variety of activities in nongovernmental
life and, of course, some from the Government, the military. But as they start
their labor sometime in September, I'm looking forward to the contributions
that they can make to the Government—some in the White House, some in
various departments.
692
