[292]
May 31
Public Papers of the Presidents
292
Remarks on Receiving the Key to the City of Madrid.
May 31, 1975
Mr. Mayor, Your Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen:
Mrs. Ford and I have been very deeply touched by the friendliness and the
warmth which have marked our arrival in Spain. The hospitality was evident
in the gracious welcome of the Chief of State and the Spanish people as we
entered this beautiful city.
Many Americans are familiar with a phrase bespeaking Spanish hospitality:
"My home is your home." In accepting this key to the city of Madrid, I have
already been made to feel completely welcome and at home.
To me,
this key represents more than hospitality. It signifies the opening of
doors, new doors to greater achievements in bringing the Spanish and the
American people closer, closer together, and building upon the friendship that
we have already shared. It is in this spirit, Mr. Mayor, that I accept this key to
your great capital city, and I thank you from the bottom of my heart.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:09 p.m. at the
Plaza Cibeles in response to remarks by Mayor
Miguel Angel Garcia-Lomas.
Following his remarks, the President departed for
El Pardo Palace for meetings with Generalissimo
Franco and President of Government Carlos Arias
Navarro.
293
Toasts of the President and Carlos Arias Navarro, President
of Government of Spain, at a Working Luncheon in Madrid.
May 31, 1975
Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Your Excellencies:
For a quarter of a century, Spain and the United States have enjoyed the
most cordial and the most productive ties, characterized by our common efforts
to meet the danger of aggression against the Western community of nations and,
supported by mutual respect for the aspirations of our respective peoples, to
secure for themselves a better life.
Mindful as we have been of each other's concerns and needs, we have forged,
fortunately, a harmonious and a very fine relationship.
We have met today to reaffirm our commitment to build this cooperation in a
mutually beneficial manner.
750
