[335]
June 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
When I think of the enterprising spirit that makes America great, I think of
my father and how the Ford Paint and Varnish Company survived in the
1930's. And believe me, it wasn't easy.
Although most of today's regulations affecting business are well-intentioned,
their effect-whether designed to protect the environment or the consumer-
often does more harm than good. They can stifle the growth in our standard of
living and contribute to inflation.
When we consider revisions in these regulations, we must consider the case
of those who may be injured by regulatory modifications. Our system can and
will make needed changes which are fair to all. Obviously, we cannot eliminate
all regulations. Some are costly but essential to public health and public safety.
But let us evaluate the costs as well as the benefits. The issue is not whether
we want to control pollution. We all do. The question is whether added costs
to the public make sense when measured against actual benefits.
As a consumer, I want to know how much the tab at the front-door checkout
counter is raised through the back door of regulatory inflation. As President, I
want to eliminate unnecessary regulations which impose a hidden tax on the
consumer.
Over a period of some 90 years, we have erected a massive Federal regulatory
structure encrusted with contradictions, excesses, and rules that have outlived
any conceivable value.
Last Friday I met with the leaders of the Congress-House and Senate, Demo-
cratic as well as Republican—to seek cooperation in eliminating regulations
which do more harm than good. I will meet next week with Members desig-
nated by the Congress to establish legislative priorities. Then I will meet with
the Commissioners of the 10 independent regulatory agencies on the need to
improve their regulations and their procedures.
I have set up a special White House group to work with the Congress and the
regulatory agencies to accomplish this long overdue and highly desirable ob-
jective. Particular emphasis will be placed on the impact of Federal regulations
on a free economy and on the life of the individual citizen.
In recent months, I have submitted a railroad revitalization act, the financial
institutions act, and the energy independence act. I have supported legislation
to remove the antitrust exemptions from State fair trade laws and signed the
Securities Acts Amendments of 1975. Also, I have asked the Congress to estab-
lish a national commission on regulatory reform.
These actions respond to the need for real economic growth. Real growth, as
830
