[243]
May 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
sonnel. So, I felt that what we did could be fully justified in not only evacuating
Americans but evacuating some of the South Vietnamese who wanted to come
to the United States.
Q. Mr. President, Secretary Kissinger said that all of the Americans who
wanted to leave South Vietnam were evacuated, but there may be some reason
to believe not all were evacuated. Some organizations, for example, report at
least eight missionaries captured in the northern part of South Vietnam. So, I am
wondering if there is some process to check this sort of thing out, and what
could be done about it?
THE PRESIDENT. We certainly made a maximum effort to get every American
out. We found in the last week, that on a certain day they could tell us that there
were 1,000 Americans that were ready to come out, and we would take 3 or
400 out, and then the next day we would find that a number of other Ameri-
cans had come into Saigon and wanted to get out.
So, we certainly made a tremendous effort to get all Americans out. I am sure
there are some who are left. At this time, I can't give you the specifics as to
how we will seek to get any Americans who are still there, but we will do all
we can to achieve that result.
Q. Mr. President, you have praised Ambassador Graham Martin's record in
Vietnam, and you have also defended the evacuation of Vietnamese civilians.
Yet, there is some evidence that Mr. Martin's actions made it impossible for
some Vietnamese to escape who were longstanding employees of the United
States Government and others were evacuated on the basis of their ability to pay.
Have you investigated any of these charges, and do you still believe that
Ambassador Martin's record is one of effectiveness?
THE PRESIDENT. Because of the ability of Ambassador Martin to handle a
tough situation—and it was very difficult-we got all Americans out and we got
roughly 120,000-plus South Vietnamese.
Now, I am familiar with some individuals who are critical of the way in
which Ambassador Martin handled it. I never had much faith in Monday morn-
ing quarterbacks or grandstand quarterbacks. I would rather put faith in the
man who carried out a very successful evacuation of Americans and a tre-
mendous number of South Vietnamese.
Rather than be critical of somebody who, I think, did a good job, I think we
ought to praise him. If some of these people want to, in hindsight—who didn't
have the responsibility-criticize him, I think we will accept it for what it's
worth.
648
