June 30
[365]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
years. This is something which EPA and other Government agencies will work
on in cooperation with the appropriate committees of Congress.
Today, we cannot shirk our responsibility to make decisions that establish
realistic ground rules. We cannot afford to ignore the sulfuric acid problem.
But our response must be more than simply another Government decree that
sets another standard that could create another problem. We have a positive
obligation to ensure that the steps we take today do not aggravate potentially
serious health hazards.
Other technical information was brought to my attention as I reached my
automobile emissions decision. In addition to a statement of facts, which I am
making public today, I have asked my advisers to consult with the appropriate
Members of the Congress, particularly the committees now considering legisla-
tion in this field. They will be available to discuss these complex and inter-
related issues and to provide all the detailed information available to the execu-
tive branch.
I urge the Congress to carefully consider all the issues involved in the potential
conflict that one national objective—clean air—might have on our efforts to
reach other national goals.
365
Remarks at the Swearing In of Daniel P. Moynihan as
United States Representative to the United Nations.
June 30, 1975
Mr. Justice White, distinguished Members of the Congress, ladies and gentle-
men:
It is a great privilege and pleasure for me to have the opportunity of partici-
pating in this wonderful occasion today, the swearing in of Ambassador
Moynihan as the Representative of the United States at the United Nations and
as the newest member of our Cabinet.
Ambassador Moynihan has served our Nation, both in and out of govern-
ment, with a refreshing innovation and intellectual distinction. He served in
the White House under the previous administration as a Counsellor to the Presi-
dent and, more recently, as our Ambassador in India.
He has combined over the years other Federal and State government service
with an outstanding service as an educator. His numerous writings have earned
him a reputation as an outstanding political, economic, and social philosopher.
895
