[28]
January 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
again and for centuries more to come what it has so long been-a stronghold
and a beacon-light of liberty for the whole world.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President delivered his address at 1:06
p.m. in the House Chamber at the Capitol. He was
introduced by Carl Albert, Speaker of the House
of Representatives. The address was broadcast live
on radio and television.
29
Statement Announcing Activation of the Energy Research and
Development Administration and the Nuclear Regulatory
Commission. January 15, 1975
I HAVE today signed an Executive order [11834] which activates on Jan-
uary 19, 1975, the Energy Research and Development Administration (ERDA)
and the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC).
The activation of these two new agencies has special meaning for me. The
proposal to create them was submitted to the Congress in June 1973. As a
Member of the House of Representatives at the time, I gave strong support to
their creation and cast my vote for the legislation in December 1973. As Vice
President, I followed closely the progress of the bill through the Senate. I was
gratified to sign the bill into law on October 11, 1974. I am now pleased to
sign the order which activates the two agencies.
Both agencies will play significant roles in our national energy programs,
thereby influencing the lives of all our people.
The Nuclear Regulatory Commission will carry out the licensing and regula-
tory functions formerly assigned the Atomic Energy Commission. Commercial
nuclear power will have an increasingly important role in our nation's energy
supply in the years ahead. This new Commission will devote its full attention to
assuring the safety as well as the reliability of this critically important source of
energy. The creation of the NRC should end the concern that some have
expressed about the past when one agency, the Atomic Energy Commission,
was assigned the responsibility for both the technological development and the
regulation of civilian nuclear power.
The Energy Research and Development Administration will bring together
in a single agency the major Federal energy research and development pro-
grams, and bear the responsibility for leading the national effort to develop the
needed technology to assure that the United States will have ample and secure
46
