April 21
[204]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
American military or diplomatic advisers out in Saigon did not agree with him
that a limited withdrawal might be effective in bringing pressure on Congress
to vote these funds and that, therefore, there was an American participation in
that decision?
THE PRESIDENT. As far as I know, Walter, there was no prenotification to
any, certainly high-ranking, U.S. military or civilian official of the withdrawal
decision.
MR. SEVAREID. Mr. President, this whole affair is going to be argued over,
and there will be vast books on it for years and years and years. Now, wouldn't
it be wisest to publish the correspondence between former President Nixon and
President Thieu, which is disputed now, the 1973 correspondence after the Paris
accords?
THE PRESIDENT. In the first place, I have personally read the correspondence.
The personal correspondence between President Nixon and President Thieu
corresponds with the public record. I have personally verified that. I don't thank
in this atmosphere it would be wise to establish the precedent of publishing the
personal correspondence between heads of state.
Maybe historically, after a period of time, it might be possible in this instance.
But if we establish a precedent for the publication of correspondence between
heads of state, I don't think that that correspondence or that kind of correspond-
ence will be effective, because heads of state-I have learned firsthand—have
to be very frank in their exchanges with one another, and to establish a precedent
that such correspondence would be public, I think, will downgrade what heads
of state try to do in order to solve problems.
MR. SEVAREID. Of course, there is no way to keep President Thieu from pub-
lishing it?
THE PRESIDENT. No.
MR. SEVAREID. Things like this have been judiciously leaked when it served
the purpose of the President or the Secretary of State. You have no such plans
for that?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I have no such plans. I think, and to be very frank about
it, it seems to me that the American people today are yearning for a new start.
As I said in my state of the world address to the Congress, let's start afresh.
Now, unless I am pressed, I don't say the Congress did this or did that. I have
to be frank if I am asked the categorical question.
I think we ought to turn back the past and take a long look at how we can
solve these problems affirmatively in the future. Vietnam has been a trauma
for this country for 15 years or more. A lot of blame can be shared by a good
545
