[265]
May 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
White House, and I quote: "May the children of the stock of Abraham who
dwell in this land continue to merit and enjoy the good will of [the] other
inhabitants."
And the quotation goes on as follows: "May the father of all mercies scatter
light, not darkness in our paths, and make us all in our several vocations useful
here, and in his own due time and way, everlastingly happy."
The President who wrote those words was George Washington. The year
was 1790. The spirit of what he said is as alive today as it was then.
My congratulations to Hugh Scott, to Marian, and my thanks to all of you
for letting me join with you in paying this tribute to them.
May God bless you all.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:11 p.m. in the
Commonwealth Ballroom at the Marriott Motor
Hotel at a reception sponsored by the American
Friends of Lubavitch. The library named in honor
of Senator and Mrs. Scott was located in Kfar
Chabad, Israel.
In his remarks, the President referred to Rabbi
Menachen Schneerson, leader of the movement in
the United States, and Bernard G. Segal, former
president of the American Bar Association.
266
Remarks by Telephone to a Dinner in Manchester, New
Hampshire, Honoring Former Senators George Aiken and
Norris Cotton. May 18, 1975
I WANTED to call and to express my great appreciation for the small business
people throughout the northeastern area—Vermont, New Hampshire, Massa-
chusetts—for their superb effort in membership, as well as philosophically, for
the things that I think are pretty fundamental in our American society.
I am delighted, David [Brinkley], that you are participating in this with
your great knowledge and expertise, information concerning what goes on
here in Washington.
Of course, Norris Cotton and Senator Aiken are two of my very favorite
people. They served with me for all of the time, really, that I have served in
the Congress of the United States, and I know of their total dedication when
they were in the House as well as in the Senate, for what was good in making
small business as a force and a factor in the economy of the United States.
I've had an opportunity to look, of course, at the total economy. And we hear,
ordinarily, about what big corporations do here or there. But it's my judgment
that the strength of America really comes from the small business people who
provide services, provide production, provide research and development.
686
