[341]
June 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
violent crime in America. Hundreds of policemen have been killed in the past
decade through the use of handguns by criminals. The most effective way to
combat the illicit use of handguns by criminals is to provide mandatory prison
sentences for anyone who uses a gun in the commission of a crime.
In addition, the federal government can be of assistance to state and local
enforcement efforts by prohibiting the manufacture of so-called Saturday Night
Specials that have no apparent use other than against human beings and by
improving Federal firearms laws and their enforcement.
At the same time, however, we must make certain that our efforts to regulate
the illicit use of handguns do not infringe upon the rights of law abiding citi-
zens. I am unalterably opposed to federal registration of guns or the licensing
of gun owners. I will oppose any effort to impose such requirements as a matter
of federal policy.
Nonetheless, we can take steps to further guard against the illicit use of
handguns by criminals.
Current Federal gun laws should be revised to provide that only responsible
bona fide gun dealers be permitted to obtain Federal licenses to engage in the
business of selling firearms. Licenses to sell firearms should also be withheld
from persons who have violated State laws, particularly firearms laws. Addi-
tional administrative controls over the sale of handguns, including a ban on
multiple sales, will help to establish dealer responsibility in stopping illicit gun
trafficking. A waiting period between the purchase and receipt of a handgun
should be imposed to enable dealers to take reasonable steps to verify that hand-
guns are not sold to persons whose possession of them would be illegal under
Federal, State or applicable local laws.
Second, I have ordered the Treasury Department's Bureau of Alcohol, To-
bacco and Firearms, which has primary responsibility for enforcing Federal
firearms laws, to double its investigative efforts in the Nation's ten largest metro-
politan areas. This action will assist local law enforcement authorities in con-
trolling illegal commerce in weapons. I have directed, therefore, that the Bureau
of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms employ and train an additional 500 investi-
gators for this priority effort.
Third, the domestic manufacture, assembly or sale—as well as the importa-
tion-of cheap, highly concealable handguns should be prohibited. These so-
called "Saturday Night Specials" are involved in an extraordinarily large num-
ber of street crimes. Most have no legitimate sporting purpose. They are such
a threat to domestic tranquility that we should eliminate their manufacture
and sale entirely.
848
