[241]
May 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
safeguards in preventing the diversion of nuclear capabilities to nonpeaceful
purposes.
I have concluded that current laws provide ample authority to control the
export and reexport of nuclear-related material, equipment and technology.
Nevertheless, existing policies and regulations are constantly being reexamined
and changed as appropriate. Domestic safeguards are under continuing review
for the purpose of making them even more effective. The international safe-
guard system will detect and thus help to deter efforts to divert such materials
by other nations.
As the volume of material and the nature of facilities grow in the world,
commensurate increases and improvements in the international safeguarding
system will be needed. The United States is encouraging the strengthening of
international safeguards by aiding and supporting IAEA safeguard develop-
ment efforts. It is also seeking to enhance physical security through the adop-
tion of an international convention. The U.S. is taking the lead in advocating
in-depth physical protection measures necessary to preclude terrorist groups
from capturing such material or conducting sabotage activities.
I wish to assure Congress that the prevention of the proliferation of nuclear
weapons or the acquisition of nuclear explosive materials for possible nonpeace-
ful uses is a priority concern in my Administration. Whatever efforts are needed
to allow the U.S. and other countries to enjoy the benefits of nuclear power,
without fear, will be taken by the Government of the United States.
The White House,
May 6, 1975.
NOTE: The report is entitled "Presidential Report to
the Congress Regarding Laws and Regulations
Governing Nuclear Exports and Domestic and In-
GERALD R. FORD
ternational Safeguards-March 31, 1975" (98 pp.
plus annexes).
242
Statement on the Death of József Cardinal Mindszenty.
May 6, 1975
JÓZSEF CARDINAL MINDSZENTY stood for courage, integrity, and un-
failing faith. In his long life, he fought against tyranny wherever he en-
countered it.
640
