February 26
[109]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
very rapidly, and I do not understand why there has been the kind of delay
that has taken place.
In the case of the energy problem, that is more understandable. Even though
I don't like it, it is a very comprehensive program that involves 170 pages in one
bill that I recommended and that will require hearings and action.
But what disappoints me—and this I do not understand—is why there have
not been hearings before the proper committees in the House and the Senate on
either my plan or the thoughts that the Democratic Members in the Congress
have on their plans.
But that is why I have the pressure on with the import levy. I think they are
now beginning to focus on the need and the necessity. Up until recently, they
just hoped the problem would go away. Now they are beginning to realize it is
serious, and hopefully there will be some affirmative action.
CAMBODIA
[21.] Q. Mr. President, in answering an earlier question about Cambodia,
you used the phrase "the commitment that we have to some extent to Cambodia,"
to distinguish it from Vietnam. Just what is our commitment to Cambodia
when, at the time that the American troops went in there in 1970, people were
told that there was not going to be any long-term commitment? Could you ex-
plain that, sir?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, Cambodia is in a somewhat different situation from
Vietnam. Vietnam is involved in the Paris accords; Cambodia was not, in an
official way. So, our obligation, which I think is important, is that they want
to maintain their national integrity and their security of their country against
outside forces.
The policy of this country is to help those nations with military hardware,
not U.S. military personnel, where the government and the people of a country
want to protect their country from foreign aggression or foreign invasion.
This is, to a substantial degree, in post-World War II, the tradition of the
United States, and I think if people in a country want to fight for freedom for
their country, to the degree that we can, I think we ought to expand freedom
around the world.
REPORTER. Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much.
NOTE: President Ford's ninth news conference began at 11:05 a.m. in the Convention Hall at the Diplomat
Hotel, Hollywood, Fla.
299
