[395]
July 11
Public Papers of the Presidents
in this problem for too long a time. We have had little action and no affirmative
results in trying to get the United States to have a meaningful energy program.
We have had reports. We have had recommendations. I submitted to the
Congress early in this year a substantial program for conservation and new
sources of energy. Unfortunately, there has been little or no action by the Con-
gress in either conservation on the one hand or new sources on the other.
If we don't do something affirmatively in this area in the short range or in
the long haul, this country's vulnerability to outside influences and actions gets
worse and worse and worse every single day.
It is obvious that a sound economic recovery in this country demands a firm
commitment to energy independence. No long-term economic growth in Amer-
ica can develop without an adequate and secure energy base.
We can no longer count on an abundant domestic oil and gas supply for con-
tinued economic growth. Obviously, alternative sources must be developed from
coal, the atom, and the new and yet unproven alternatives, such as solar energy.
I happen to believe, however, that the free enterprise system is the best hope
for freeing us from dependence on others for our energy in the United States.
For example, I have asked the Congress to approve legislation that would
allow private enterprise for the first time to enter the business of enriching
uranium and providing the kind of base that is essential and necessary for our
nuclear energy in America as well as for our allies and friends around the
world.
Now, in speaking this evening, I have used terms like moderation, restraint,
reason, savings, investment, and long-term. They aren't new ideas or new
virtues. They are as old as civilization. They are sound, however, and history
proves that they are right. I am convinced they are essential to our full economic
recovery in America.
I believe that old values are as new as their need. I believe that great scientific
discoveries of this century have changed the world, but I also believe that basic
principles—such as honor, truth, hard work—have given it stability. I believe
that the wisdom which mankind has learned over time is imperishable, and we
ignore it at our own risk.
That is why I believe, with no apologies, in so-called old-fashioned, individual
responsibility. Responsibility is the price of independence. It is the cost of free-
dom, be it economic freedom, political freedom, or individual freedom.
We believe in the brotherhood of man because we recognize the worthiness.
of each individual.
966
