July 12
[396]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
before—but to say that we had sympathy for the transit system here, there was
an award made by the Department of Transportation of $107 million to help
and assist at the local level in improving transit operations in this city.
MAYOR RICHARD DALEY OF CHICAGO
[12.] Q. By the way, it was announced prior to yesterday that Mayor Delay
would not greet your plane, and then he did meet it. Was there pressure brought
from the White House for the mayor of Chicago to come to meet you?
THE PRESIDENT. There was no pressure brought from the White House. I can
only say I have seen Mayor Daley on a number of occasions. We have a good
personal relationship. I was delighted and pleased that Mrs. Daley and the
Mayor met Mrs. Ford and myself, and we were especially pleased that they had
the time to come to our suite in the hotel and sit for roughly a half an hour and
talk about family matters, business matters. And I think that kind of a relation-
ship is wholesome for the city of Chicago, and it is certainly beneficial to me.
GRAIN SALES TO THE SOVIET UNION
[13.] Q. Mr. President, the United States is apparently prepared to approve
negotiations of a multi-ton wheat and grain sale with the Soviet Union. Other
countries are facing drought and may ask for sales, too. My questions are: How
much can we sell without dipping in too much to our harvest this year, and
won't this increase costs of bread and food later this year to our consumers?
THE PRESIDENT. First, we should thank the farmers of this country for their
tremendous productivity. We are fortunate in America to be the breadbasket
of the world. Our farmers do a tremendous job in the production of food for
us and for the world as a whole.
We are anticipating the largest corn crop, the largest wheat crop in the history
of the United States, but there are some uncertainties.
We hope that there will be a sale to the Soviet Union. It will be helpful to
the American farmer and will be a reward for his productivity. We hope that
there will be ample supplies of corn and wheat and feed grains so that we can
help other nations around the world through our Food for Peace program.
And if there is this sizable crop in the variety of areas, it will mean that we
can expand our Food for Peace program and act in a humanitarian way to the
less fortunate.
I have no idea at this point what the amount will be of the sale to the Soviet
Union, if it does materialize. But I think the fact that we can make one is a
blessing, and I hope we do make one. But I want to assure you, as I do the
973
