June 26
[358]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
cooperation and limited assurances from the Federal Government, the private
sector can do the job effectively and efficiently-and at enormous savings to
the American taxpayer. In this way, direct public benefits will be provided on
a long-term basis by private capital, not by taxpayers.
Accordingly, I am proposing legislation to the Congress to authorize Gov-
ernment assurances necessary for private enterprise to enter into this vital field.
A number of compelling reasons argue for private ownership, as well as opera-
tion, of uranium enrichment plants. The market for nuclear fuel is predomi-
nantly in the private sector. The process of uranium enrichment is clearly indus-
trial in nature.
The uranium enrichment process has the making of a new industry for the
private sector in much the same tradition as the process for synthetic rubber—
with early Government development eventually being replaced by private
enterprise.
One of the strengths of America's free enterprise system is its ability to
respond to unusual challenges and opportunities with ingenuity, vigor and
flexibility. A significant opportunity may be in store for many firms—old and
new-to participate in the growth of the uranium enrichment industry. Just
as coal and fuel oil are supplied to electric utilities by private firms on a com-
petitive basis, enriched uranium should be supplied to them in the same
fashion in the future.
The energy consumer also stands to benefit. The production of nuclear
power now costs between 25 and 50 percent less than electricity produced from
fossil fuels. It is not vulnerable to the supply whims or unwarranted price de-
crees of foreign energy suppliers. And based on the past fifteen years of experi-
ence, commercial nuclear power has an unparalleled record of safe operation.
The key technology of the uranium enrichment process is secret and will
remain subject to continued classification, safeguards and export controls.
But for several years, a number of qualified American companies have been
granted access to the Government's technology under carefully controlled con-
ditions to enable them to assess the commercial potential for private enriching
plants.
The Government-owned gaseous diffusion enriching plants have run relia-
bly and with ever-improving efficiency for more than a quarter of a century.
One private group has chosen this well-demonstrated process as part of its $3.5
billion proposal to build an enrichment plant serving 90 nuclear reactors here
and abroad in the 1980's. Others are studying the potential of the newer gas
centrifuge process. Though not yet in large-scale operation, the centrifuge proc-
885
