[43]
January 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
I think your visit here today is particularly well-timed. We are in the midst,
as you can tell, of many important developments affecting you and all of your
readers. I might just say that I came from a meeting with 11 Governors from
the northeastern part of the United States where I spent a considerable amount
of time to explain to them a problem that they are very concerned about—and
I am too-how we are going to equitably distribute the problems that are
resulting from an energy conservation and an energy development program.
But this is only one of the many problems that we face here in the United
States now, problems that will require considerable sacrifice, problems that will
undoubtedly present some hardships. But because of your role, I would like to
share some of the Administration's plans with you, and I obviously heard that
some of the members of the Administration were trying to not only listen but
explain some of the problems we have.
As newspaper publishers serving the black community, it is obvious to me
that you occupy a very unique role in the communications industry. You have
special insights and very special responsibilities. Sometimes in Washington it is
possible to forget the press is much more than the very limited number of news-
papers, magazines, and national networks which cover the White House on a
daily basis.
But as I tried to say a moment ago, you represent the hundreds of newspapers
that look out not only for Washington and the world but inward to the cities,
the towns, and various neighborhoods.
Because of my 25-plus years in the Congress, I think I understand on an
intimate basis the paved streets and the garbage collections and that they are
just as important to our country and to your readers as oil imports. You are there
where it counts, channeling local news to your communities and challenging
them to solve some of the mutual problems.
In my judgment, one of the most exciting trends in recent years has been the
increasing participation of Americans in their local affairs. This has been seen
in everything from the formation of block associations to the revision of city
charters.
This increased interest reinforces my great, great faith in democracy. This
renewed concern for community problems would not have been possible without
the good work of news organizations such as those that you individually and
collectively represent.
Local newspapers as well as television and radio stations are vehicles for com-
munity conversations, and community conversations, even when there are dis-
88
