[302]
June 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
have become enshrined at the very heart of our Government as a part of Amer-
ica's history and America's heritage. This symbolizes only one aspect of our
great debt to Italy.
Our hearts are lifted when we hear America's many bands playing stirring
airs, and we do recall that President Thomas Jefferson, who loved the music of
Italy, invited Italian musicians to create our first military band.
In considering those who have made distinguished contributions to the re-
lations between our countries, I would like to take this occasion to express my
appreciation for the outstanding service of your Ambassador to the United
States, Ambassador Ortona. He has gained the respect and the appreciation of
not only American Presidents and Secretaries of State but also of the American
people.
Americans in Italy never feel that they are among strangers. We always have
the feeling that we are with close friends.
In this relationship, our two countries share much in common. Our cultural,
economic, fraternal, commercial, and social ties affirm our continued coopera-
tion and close association. Our Governments are committed to a world of free-
dom and peace and to overcoming tensions which threaten the peace. We are
committed to the strength of an alliance that has kept more than a quarter
century of peace on the Continent and which is indispensable to our concerted
efforts to reduce tensions and to increase cooperation. Of first importance, we
share a firm dedication to democratic government and the principles of freedom
and liberty. We in America value the role of Italy in the world, your contribu-
tions to the Atlantic Alliance, and your efforts toward a stronger and more
cohesive Europe working with the United States.
These bonds and shared goals, Mr. President, were set forth in the joint state-
ment issued on the occasion of your visit to the United States last year. They
have been reaffirmed in our discussions today.
At the NATO summit conference in Brussels last week, the member nations
of the Atlantic Alliance renewed their commitment to the Atlantic Alliance
and to the principles of friendship and cooperation and the common defenses,
which are its foundation.
I must emphasize how much the United States values Italy's partnership and
Italy's contributions to the Alliance. We greatly admire the leaders and the
people of Italy in carrying through difficult economic measures which are
crucial in fighting today's economic difficulties. We are keenly aware of Italy's
strengths. We are proud of our alliance with you and take confidence in the
knowledge that this relationship is welcomed by you.
764
