[63]
February 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
A left-hander may not look good signing documents, but I couldn't help but
appreciate those two left-handed tennis players yesterday.¹
Well, there is the bad news but also, if followed by the Congress, will be good
news. So, Roy, let me give to you and the top people that I have worked with-
and you have to a greater extent―—a pen that is part of the operation and the
final one.
This is for Paul O'Neill 2 and the others.
Thank you very much. Thank you again for all of the help and assistance.
Now, I know there are others besides the six or seven of you that have done
some work on this. Well, thank all of you as well as Roy and the others, and we
will try to have a better one next year. But this one is the best, I think, that we
could possibly do under the economic circumstances and the facts of life, and
I thank you again, Roy.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:04 a.m. at a cere-
mony in the Cabinet Room at the White House
attended by staff members of the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget.
64
Annual Budget Message to the Congress, Fiscal Year 1976.
February 3, 1975
To the Congress of the United States:
The year 1976 will mark the bicentennial of this country. With this budget
we shall begin our third century as a Nation.
In our first two centuries we have developed from 13 struggling colonies to a
powerful leader among nations. Our population has increased from three million
to more than 213 million. From a simple agricultural society we have grown into
a complex industrialized one.
Our Government—and its budget-have grown with the Nation, as the
increasing complexity of modern society has placed greater responsibilities upon
it. Yet our society has remained free and democratic, true to the principles of our
Founding Fathers.
As we approach our third century as a Nation, we face serious economic
difficulties of recession and inflation. I have a deep faith, however, in the funda-
mental strength of our Nation, our people, our economy, and our institutions of
1The President was referring to a match between professional tennis players Jimmy Connors and Rod
Deputy Director of the Office of Management and Budget.
Laver.
146
