March 17
[137]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
America has to offer. Let it demonstrate that the University of Notre Dame
rejects what some call the new isolationism.
Let me share with you a specific problem that Father Hesburgh mentioned
in his introduction. When the World Food Conference met in Rome in the fall
of 1974, I, as the newly chosen President, was faced with a very perplexing
problem. Food prices in America were over one-fifth higher than in the previous
year. Food reserves, as reported by the Department of Agriculture, were
dwindling. The corn crop and other commodities were disappointing in 1974.
There were concerns about hunger among our own people.
Against this background, I was presented with several alternative estimates
on how much we should spend for Food for Peace for those in other lands.
At the Rome conference, American spokesmen pledged that we would try our
utmost to increase our food contribution despite our own crop problems. As
crop reports improved, I designated—as was mentioned by Father Hesburgh-a
sum even higher than the highest option recommended to me at the time of the
conference.
A factor in my own decision was your fine president, Father Hesburgh, and
you should be thankful that you have a person who has such broad interests
as he, as the president of your university. A factor also in my judgment was
that the program provided, and properly so, a reminder of America's moral
commitment.
Food for Peace was increased from about $980 million to $1.6 billion. This
will provide about 5.5 million tons of commodities, up from 3.3 million tons
last year. Most of the commodities will be wheat and rice. But also desperately
required and also increased are blended foods used in nutritional programs for
mothers and for infants.
The United States, fortunately, is no longer the only country aiding others.
But we continue to lead-and we will-in providing food assistance. In 20
years of Food for Peace, we shipped over 245 million tons of wheat, rice, and
other grains, valued at roughly $23 billion.
Every American should be proud of that record. It is an illustration of the
humane feeling and the generosity of the American people.
While food helps, only by technical assistance can emerging nations meet
their needs. It has been often said, but I think it is appropriate at this time, that
if a hungry man is given a fish, he can eat for one day. But if he is taught to
fish, he can eat every day.
The greatest opportunity lies in expanding production in areas where pro-
duction will be consumed. The world is farming only about one-half of the
357
