February 4
[71]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
vantaged Americans must be encouraged to train for new jobs, for higher in-
come, for a better standard of living. And these incentives to the people that you
work with on a day-to-day basis must not be removed; they should be available.
you train these people, they must have the inspiration and the incentive and
the availability to move up that social and economic ladder.
As
When those final tough decisions were made, or as I was tackling the energy
problem, fighting recession, and working on inflation, I did my very best to see
that the burden was shared fairly among all peoples—individuals as well as
business—and I can assure you, the special problems of low-income Americans
were considered very carefully in the decisions that were made. And if you
will look at the total package, the plan to stimulate and stabilize and improve
our economy and the plan to give us energy independence, you will find that
the fate of all Americans was carefully considered and appropriate—in fact,
special consideration was given to the less well-off. And if the Congress will act
affirmatively on the total program, those who are disadvantaged will be given
financial assistance and given an opportunity to improve their lot through
OIC.
But what we have to recognize—and that is what Dr. Sullivan said so elo-
quently—is the fate of all Americans rides upon our mutual success in over-
coming present problems. And these problems require a total commitment
that looks down the road to total solutions.
A secure economic-energy future depends upon the willingness of all Amer-
icans to join in this common effort, and I believe very deeply in this common
willingness. I believe Americans will accept the sacrifices of today for a stronger
and a better country tomorrow. I have a deep and abiding faith that we will
help ourselves overcome the problems we face in the economy, the energy
difficulties that are on our doorstep, and in the process, make us a better people
individually and collectively—a better people, not only for ourselves but our
posterity.
Thank you very kindly.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:10 p.m. in the Grand
Ballroom at the Marriott Hotel. In his opening re-
marks, he referred to Rev. Dr. Leon H. Sullivan,
founder and chairman of the board of the OIC, and
the Ambassadors or their representatives from
Mauritius, Sierra Leone, Zambia, Ghana, Cameroon,
Nigeria, and the Organization of African Unity.
183
