March 26
[157]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Since World War II, Federal jobs have been opened to more than a quarter
million of our citizens who, though handicapped, have nonetheless been quali-
fied to serve. They have served well.
The Federal Government has a strong commitment to:
-assist the physically impaired, including the disabled veteran, who are not
occupationally handicapped when assigned to the right job;
-consider the mentally restored whose only handicap is that they once suf-
fered an emotional illness; and
-employ the mentally retarded who can demonstrate ability to perform
certain tasks required in all organizations.
Now, under the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 and the Vietnam Era Veterans'
Readjustment Assistance Act of 1974, that policy has been given new force and
meaning for handicapped citizens. Under these laws you are charged with
developing comprehensive affirmative action plans for the hiring, placement,
and advancement of handicapped individuals and disabled veterans in each
Federal department and agency. I urge you to carry out these plans to the fullest
extent so that our fellow citizens can learn from your example.
GERALD R. FORD
157
Letter to the Speaker of the House and the President Pro Tempore
of the Senate on Pending Tax Reduction Legislation.
March 26, 1975
[Dated March 25, 1975. Released March 26, 1975]
I AM writing you while the Conference Committee is considering the House
and Senate versions of H.R. 2166, the tax cut which I urged last January to
stimulate the economy. Although I am most anxious to sign a bill along the
lines I have proposed, I am now concerned that Congress is trying to do too
much in the legislation the Conferees are considering, thereby providing an
economic stimulus far beyond that which is needed.
The Conferees and the Members should understand that I will be unable to
accept a bill so encumbered with extraneous amendments and of such deficit-
increasing magnitude as to nullify the intended effect of a one-time stimulant.
The purpose in asking the Congress to enact a simple tax cut as quickly as
possible was to stimulate the economy. I proposed temporary one-time tax cuts
totalling $16 billion. My proposal was designed to provide maximum stimulus
399
