January 18
[35]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
before the Congress. The problem, in my judgment, is far too pressing, and too
many Americans are out of work. I say, let's join together in starting the process,
maintaining forward momentum, and in getting Congressional committees to
meet and get down to the specific cases, so that whatever the differences are,
they can be resolved.
To put it another way, let's start the train in the right direction and reconcile
concerns over the fare and the speed and even over the rebates on tickets. But
let's get started.
Tonight, I would like to issue a very special invitation to George Meany, Bob
Georgine, and all of the other great leaders of American labor. The White
House door is open to you and your associates. I need your help. But more im-
portantly, the country needs your help. And I say to the construction and build-
ing trades tonight: Let us construct, let us build, rather than debate and
denounce.
I ask you tonight, and I ask each and every one of you tonight, to join with
me in pressing for action to get our economy moving again, to open new con-
struction and new jobs across America.
I ask you to put your tremendous forces, your efforts behind the drive for an
American energy independence. And I call on you to volunteer, as you have so
often in the past, as labor has done it repetitively, to work in every community
to install energy-saving home insulation with the materials that the Federal
Government will make available free to the poor people in our society.
Obviously, I congratulate Bob Georgine—young fellow; great opportunity—
no question that he will make it and do extremely well. And those of us who
know of his background and know of his capabilities are convinced beyond any
question of a doubt that he will perform in the great, great tradition of the
outstanding labor leaders of our country in the past.
Bob, I congratulate you and wish you the very best.
Let me conclude with this observation. I understand, somewhat incidentally,
that Bob plays gin rummy-I won't say how well. Let me put it this way: Bob
Georgine has done for gin rummy what the Titanic did for ocean travel.
[Laughter]
And so, Bob, to help you with this problem, I would like to give you a little
gift, a copy of "Cohen's Complete Book of Gin Rummy." I am told it should
do wonders for your game, and the next time you play George Meany and Lane
Kirkland,¹ you will be able to lose more convincingly. [Laughter]
Secretary-treasurer of the AFL-CIO.
59
