February 25
[108]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
We now consume approximately 17 million barrels of oil per day, about 7
million from foreign sources. By 1985, we will be consuming in total about 24
million barrels a day. Unless something is done, imports will rise to 12.7 million
barrels. This is over half of the total we use and puts us at the mercy of others.
By adopting the suggestions that I have recommended to the Congress, we can
become independent of foreign oil by the mid-1980's and at the mercy of
nobody-nobody.
We can and we must reduce our needs from the projected 12.7 million barrels
to less than 5 million barrels. Strategic petroleum reserves would replace 3 of
these 5 million barrels in the event of a national emergency. They could be used.
This is what I envision for America if this plan that I have recommended, or
something reasonably comparable to it, is enacted into law. By 1985, we could
have 200 major nuclear powerplants, 250 major new coal mines, 150 major coal-
fired powerplants, 30 major new oil refineries, 20 major synthetic fuel plants,
drilling of thousands of new oil wells, the insulation of 18 million homes, the
manufacturing of millions of new cars, trucks, and buses that will use far
less fuel.
I might say that we have an agreement in writing with the major automo-
bile manufacturers that if we agree to the California standards for emissions,
which is a higher standard than we have today, they will guarantee in 5 years
to get a 40-percent increase in automobile efficiency. That means 40 percent less
gas utilization. This is the kind of a program that is included in that bill that I
showed you.
Now, to achieve our goals for beyond 1985, I have asked the Federal agen-
cies—particularly the Energy Resources Council and the newly created Energy
Research and Development Administration—to work with the private sector to
develop a broad range of technologies that can tap all of our domestic energy
resources. This means not only coal, oil, gas, and nuclear resources but the
emerging alternative sources such as solar, geothermal, and oil shale energy.
These are what we call, more or less, the exotic fuels. Over the next 5 years
alone, the Federal Government plans to spend $11 billion in energy research
and development.
Let me illustrate the magnitude of this research and development program.
In 1976, we have recommended in the Federal budget $2,300 million for energy
research, more than double the amount of the last 2 years.
We recognize that America is very rich in energy resources. We have, poten-
tially, a thousand years of nuclear fuel. We have hundreds of years of coal
285
