February 12
[86]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Now, I think it is just a great deal better from the point of view of domestic
tranquillity for all of us to concentrate on achieving an answer on our domestic
problems, action by the Congress, administrative decisions by me. This, I think,
is more productive than something that could upset some of the people in Wash-
ington and elsewhere.
REPORTER. Thank you, Mr. President.
NOTE: President Ford's eighth news conference began at 7:03 p.m. in the ballroom at the Ramada Inn,
Topeka, Kans.
86
Remarks at a Ceremony Commemorating the Birth of
Abraham Lincoln. February 12, 1975
Mr. Chairman, Mr. Ambassador, Mayor Washington, Senator Beall, Mr. Hunt,
ladies and gentlemen:
When Abraham Lincoln was President, the half-finished Washington Monu-
ment down the Mall stood as a silent testimony that the Nation itself was still
unfinished, that it was young, and that it was struggling. Today, I find a new
inspiration in laying this wreath to the memory of Lincoln on his 165th anniver-
sary of his birth.
President Lincoln envisioned a program to achieve, in his words, a just and
lasting peace among ourselves and among all nations. He saw the need for
action to face an unprecedented challenge. Addressing himself to a nation then
divided, he proclaimed that the dogmas of a quiet past are inadequate in the
stormy present.
None of our problems today are as severe as those facing Lincoln-human
slavery and civil war between the States-but we are confronted with the need
to achieve economic emancipation.
As President, I believe it would be fitting to memorialize Abraham Lincoln
by rededicating this Administration to reviving the moral and spiritual strengths
which he bequeathed to the United States.
In his first annual message to the Congress on December 3, 1861, Lincoln
stressed that responsibility must center somewhere. Advocating action on a
united program for a troubled America, Lincoln told the Congress exactly that.
And these are his precise words: “In a storm at sea no one on board can wish
the ship to sink, and yet not infrequently, all go down together because too
many will direct and no single mind will be allowed to control."
233
