[234]
May 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
assistance to strengthen State school finance and State equalization programs. I
understand that Commissioner Bell is now preparing the guidelines and the
standards for the implementation of this program. The new law touches the
impact aid formula as well as providing another section to encourage and to
support studies of school finance formulas in all 50 States.
In the budget which I submitted to the Congress for fiscal year 1976, for
elementary and secondary education purposes we recommended a 50-percent
increase over a budget that was submitted in 1969. I know there are people in
this group and perhaps others who don't think that's enough. But I think it is
helpful to put some of these figures in perspective as we try to find a proper way
to adequately fund, at the Federal level, the contribution of the Federal Govern-
ment to education.
Let me assure you—and I have told your president—that I and my Adminis-
tration want to work with NEA. Your advice, your assistance will be welcome.
I've been around this town long enough to know that you can't always agree,
but I think a dialog is helpful. And the door will be open not only to Commis-
sioner Bell and his associates but will be open as far as the White House is con-
cerned.
We want to establish closer ties between NEA and my Administration. And if
we do have this dialog, this understanding, I think we can strengthen education
in all 50 States.
Thank you very kindly.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:55 a.m. in Room
450 at the Old Executive Office Building. In his
remarks, he referred to William J. Baroody, Jr.,
Assistant to the President for Public Liaison; James
Harris, president of the association; and Virginia Y.
Trotter, Assistant Secretary for Education, and
T. H. Bell, Commissioner of Education, Department
of Health, Education, and Welfare.
235
Remarks Upon Presenting the Harmon International
Aviation Trophies. May 2, 1975
Senator Goldwater, trustees and the advisory committee of the Harmon Trophy
Commission, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
I'm very, very honored this morning to add my name to the list of Presidents,
as well as Vice Presidents, who have presided at Harmon Aviation Award
ceremonies.
The Harmon Awards, as many of you know, were founded in 1926 by the
late Colonel Clifford Harmon, a pioneer in American aviation as an American
628
