July 14
[402]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
402
Remarks Announcing Proposed Compromise With the Congress
on Decontrol of Domestic Oil Prices. July 14, 1975
I HAVE a short statement I would like to read.
To reduce our growing dependence on foreign oil, I will send to the Congress
a compromise plan to phase out remaining Government price controls on domes-
tic oil by January 1978.¹
During this period of decontrol, a price ceiling will be placed on all domes-
tically produced oil to ensure that American crude oil prices cannot be dictated
by foreign oil producers.
By removing Government controls, production of oil here at home can be
stimulated and energy conserved. Decontrol and the import fees I imposed
earlier will reduce our dangerous reliance on foreign oil by almost 900,000
barrels a day in just over 2 years.
There is no cost-free way to reduce our dependence on increasingly expensive
foreign oil. Gradual decontrol will result in a price increase on all petroleum
products—less than 12 cents per gallon by the end of this year and 7 cents by
1978. This is a small price to pay for our national independence from the costly
whims of foreign suppliers.
If the Congress acts on this compromise, on my proposed energy taxes, includ-
ing the tax on excessive profits of oil companies, and on my proposed refunds
to the American consumer to make up for higher energy costs, then the burden
of decontrol will be shared fairly, our economic recovery will continue, and we
will be able to protect American jobs.
The problem is: 60 percent of all domestic production is still price-controlled
at about $5.25 per barrel. This price discourages the use of new and more ex-
pensive production techniques. It encourages wasteful use of the limited do-
mestic resource.
But the powers that I possess under the current law to phase out controls are
limited. Either the Senate or the House of Representatives can prevent gradual
decontrol from going into effect.
This morning, I held a meeting on this subject with the Democratic and
Republican leaders of the House and the Senate. It was recognized that this is
a very complicated matter. There seems now to be an agreement that the Nation
On July 16, 1975, Federal Energy Administrator Frank G. Zarb transmitted to the Congress the
President's proposed amendment to Federal Energy Administration regulations providing for the gradual
removal of price controls from domestic crude oil. The text of the proposed amendment is printed in the
Federal Register of July 16, 1975 (40 FR 30030).
989
