January 21
[36]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
expressed in the State of the Union and elsewhere your fear that your programs
for stimulating the economy may bring back a new surge of inflation in future
months. Under those circumstances, don't you think it would be prudent to
ask Congress for standby authority for wage and price controls and some
restraint on profit margins if this happens?
THE PRESIDENT. I do not believe, in the economic environment we are in
today, that standby price and wage controls are the right remedy. I do not think
that any profit control is a proper remedy, either.
The free economy over the years has proven to be the best answer, and our
experiences in the last several years with wage and price controls has been not
a very good one. So, I personally think, in the current circumstances, that we
should not have standby or mandatory price and wage controls.
INFLATION AND RECESSION
[27.] Q. In that event, Mr. President, have you and your advisers been
concerned, or had any anxiety that this cycle of inflation and recession, inflation
and recession—this cycle, this dreary cycle—really will just continue year after
year and, at some point, one or the other of them will get completely out of
control?
THE PRESIDENT. My economic program is aimed at stimulating the economy
sufficiently to get us over the immediate recession we are in at the present time.
And I believe if the Congress will take the actions that I have recommended to
slow down the growth of spending and, at the same time, pass the energy pro-
gram that I have recommended, we can continue to make headway against
inflation and, at the same time, get over the hump of our current recession.
VIEWS ON THE PRESIDENCY
[28.] Q. Mr. President, you are now approaching 6 months in office. Could
you tell us a little bit about how you like the job, about your personal philosophy
towards it?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think I have said several times that I enjoy the chal-
lenge of the job. It is not an easy one, but I enjoy the day-to-day responsibilities,
challenges. I work hard at it. I try to have an open-door policy to Members of
Congress, to the public, and to the Administration members individually as well
as collectively.
I feel we are making headway, and we can and will make more headway if
the Congress will work with me on some of these problems.
71
