[166]
April 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
QUESTIONS
REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM AND CAMBODIA
[2.] Q. Mr. President, are you ready to accept a Communist takeover of
South Vietnam and Cambodia?
THE PRESIDENT. I would hope that that would not take place in either case.
My whole Congressional life in recent years was aimed at avoiding it. My com-
plete efforts as President of the United States were aimed at avoiding that.
I am an optimist, despite the sad and tragic events that we see unfolding. I
will do my utmost in the future—as I have in the past—to avoid that result.
Q. Mr. President, I understand you are soon going to ask Congress for new
authority to extend humanitarian aid in Southeast Asia. I wondered if you stand
by your request, though, for more military aid for South Vietnam?
THE PRESIDENT. We do intend to ask for more humanitarian aid. I should
point out that the Administration request for $135 million for humanitarian aid
in South Vietnam was, unfortunately, reduced to $55 million by Congressional
action. Obviously, we will ask for more. The precise amount we have not yet
determined.
We will continue to push for the $300 million that we have asked for and
Congress had authorized for military assistance to South Vietnam, and the possi-
bility exists that we may ask for more.
Q. Mr. President, how and why did the U.S. miscalculate the intentions of
the will of the South Vietnamese to resist?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't believe that we miscalculated the will of the South
Vietnamese to carry on their fight for their own freedom.
There were several situations that developed that I think got beyond the
control of the Vietnamese people. The unilateral military decision to withdraw
created a chaotic situation in Vietnam that appears to have brought about
tremendous disorganization.
I believe that the will of the South Vietnamese people to fight for their freedom
is best evidenced by the fact that they are fleeing from the North Vietnamese, and
that clearly is an indication they don't want to live under the kind of govern-
ment that exists in North Vietnam.
The will of the South Vietnamese people, I think, still exists. They want
freedom under a different kind of government than has existed in North Viet-
nam. The problem is how to organize that will under the traumatic experiences
of the present.
Q. Unilateral decision by whom?
412
