[331]
June 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
got proper public recognition, but a public service that was absolutely essential
in the difficult times following World War II.
So this, in my judgment, is greatly appreciated not only by the people of the
United States for what it can do in the future, but it does, at the same time,
indelibly make as a matter of record a career of a person, in John J. McCloy,
that needs that proper public exposure and recognition.
So, I thank you in both cases and congratulate John McCloy for his never-
ending service to our country.
NOTE: The President spoke at approximately 1:15
p.m. in the Rose Garden at the White House in
response to the remarks of President Walter Scheel
of the Federal Republic of Germany.
President Scheel and Mr. McCloy spoke as follows:
PRESIDENT SCHEEL
Mr. President, Mr. McCloy, ladies and gentlemen:
To begin with, I wish to thank you most cordially,
Mr. President, for having allowed this small cere-
mony to take place in the White House.
Your gesture is the finest present that could have
been made to mark the baptism of the fund. Its name
is "John J. McCloy Fund for German-American
Exchanges." It is a fund made available by the Gov-
ernment of the Federal Republic of Germany as one
of its contributions to the celebration marking the
Bicentennial of the United States of America.
But the fund also is to honor the man whose
name it bears and whom we want to thank, John
J. McCloy, Germany's great American friend.
It is not for a German President to pay tribute to
the work which this great patriot did for his own.
country, but what I can do is to express our gratitude
for the invaluable service he has rendered to German-
American relations.
In working for that cause, he has ever served his
country. But to us, he became the great friend, a
symbol of German-American friendship.
In 1949, a few days before the Federal Republic
was founded, John McCloy came to Germany as the
first civilian United States High Commissioner. He
assumed his office at a time when the Marshall Plan
had already become operative, at a time when a
fundamental change had come underway in rela-
tions between the two nations.
The aid provided under the Marshall Plan saved
millions of Germans from great misery. Never before
had the vanquished received so much active and
unbiased support from the victor.
John McCloy was able to build on the basis of
this great and truly humane American policy. The
years of his term of office as High Commissioner
for Germany-1949 to 1952-were of decisive im-
portance for the future course and destiny of my
country.
The Federal Republic was founded, its basic law
enacted, a free and democratic state formed. The
heaps of debris were removed. The people began to
show initiative again. The foundations were laid for
the subsequent economic recovery.
Slowly, the Federal Republic reentered the circle
of the family of nations. The occupation regime was
gradually relaxed and in the end almost totally
abolished.
The freely elected German Government took the
country's fortunes into its own hands. It was
period of new beginnings.
Today, hardly anyone can still imagine the
thousands of problems we had to contend with.
Building a new state for 60 million people was a
tough job, to be sure. Yet it all developed at surpris-
ing speed.
The people seized and used opportunities that
freedom had for them. No doubt, things would have
progressed less quickly had we not had friends who
knew our problems as though they were their own,
friends who gave advice or warnings, who explained
our trials and worries to their own governments,
who encouraged their governments to show confi-
dence, who organized help wherever they could.
And here, it is John J. McCloy whom I have to name
first and foremost.
Nor should I forget to mention his wife, who,
as a big weekly wrote on the occasion of John
McCloy's 80th birthday, was a good star of many
Germans at that time.
As High Commissioner and head of the Marshall
Plan administration in Germany, John McCloy at-
tended to practically all problems with which we
were confronted, offering his help, advice, and good
offices. I can hardly imagine that the United States
ever assigned a more difficult, a more complicated
task to any of its servants that John J. McCloy has
accomplished in a manner that will forever assure
him an honorable memory in the history books of
both countries.
Wisdom and tact, reliable judgment, and in-
exhaustible imagination, combined with profound
humaneness, humor, and the great gift of under-
standing, of listening to others-in short, his out-
820
