[251]
May 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
that every State has the right to adopt its own system of government and its
own economic and social organization. Fortunately, we live in a hemisphere
with a rich tradition of diversity.
One of our continuing tasks is to resolve issues that from time to time divide us.
For example, we are now updating our relationship with Panama over the issue
of the canal. This new relationship will accommodate the important interests of
both of our countries and all of the nations of the world which depend upon the
canal.
The world we now live in is increasingly fluid and complex, containing
many new centers of power. There are new and more subtle challenges to the
well-being of mankind. And the new issues reflect the major concerns of our
people-economic development, growth of trade, sufficient food production, a
healthy environment, and managing the growth of population.
As the world economy becomes much more complex, the line between
domestic and international economic policy becomes ever less distinct. We know
we have differences, and we certainly will continue to have them. But despite
such problems, I am personally confident that we will shape the relationships
necessary to improve the lives of all of our people.
The nations of this hemisphere have individually and jointly made great
progress in their efforts to promote the well-being of their peoples. Our co-
operation for development requires constant redefinition and imaginative new
solutions to the common problems that we face. The United States is proud
of its continuing contribution to this joint effort. There is no reason we cannot
conquer the last vestiges of poverty in a hemisphere which is so richly endowed.
The tradition of mutual cooperation, which is at the heart of our inter-
American system, adds another dimension to the requirements of global inter-
dependence. We must be particularly conscious of the need to avoid unnecessary
damage to each other's interests. For this reason, I am supporting modification
of recent legislation passed by the Congress which singles out a few nations of
the hemisphere for what seems to be discriminatory treatment.
International cooperation that assures mutual respect among nations is more
essential than ever, and the opportunities, particularly in this hemisphere, are
without precedent.
I wish you the greatest success in your deliberations and hope that together
we can take full advantage of the opportunities for cooperation that present
themselves to us, who are the fortunate inhabitants of these great Americas.
Thank you very much.
662
