January 23
[45]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
of fact, the American Ambassador there, Graham Martin, has told me as well
as Dr. Kissinger that he thinks if adequate dollars, which are translated into
arms and economic aid, if that was made available, that within 2 or 3 years
the South Vietnamese would be over the hump militarily as well as economically.
Now, I am sure we have been told that before, but they had made substantial
progress until they began to run a little short of ammunition, until inflation
started in the last few months to accelerate.
I happen to think that Graham Martin, who is a very hardnosed, dedicated
man, and very realistic, is right. And I hope the Congress will go along with
this extra supplemental that I am asking for to help the South Vietnamese
protect themselves.
MR. CHANCELLOR. Sir, that is $300 million you have asked for the South
Vietnamese. And given what you have just said-well, I am just going to
phrase it this way-will we see the light at the end of the tunnel if we give
them $300 million?
THE PRESIDENT. The best estimates of the experts that are out there, both
military and civilian, tell me that $300 million in this fiscal year is the minimum.
A year ago when the budget was submitted for military assistance for South
Vietnam, it was $1,400 million. Congress cut it in half, which meant that South
Vietnamese rangers going out on patrol, instead of having an adequate supply
of hand grenades and weapons, were cut in half, which, of course, has under-
cut their military capability and has made them conserve and not be as strong.
Now, $300 million doesn't take them back up to where they were or where
it was proposed they should be. But the experts say, who are on the scene, who
have seen the fighting and have looked at the stocks and the reserves, tell me
that that would be adequate for the current circumstances.
MR. CHANCELLOR. Mr. President, does it make you uneasy to sit on that
couch in this room and have experts in Vietnam saying, only a little bit more
and it will be all right? We did hear that for so many years.
THE PRESIDENT. I think you have to think pretty hard about it. But a lot of
skeptics, John, said that the money we were going to make available for the
rehabilitation of Europe after World War II wouldn't do any good, and of course,
the investment we made did pay off.
A lot of people have said the money that we made available to Israel wouldn't
be helpful in bringing about the peace that has been achieved there for the last
year and a half or so, but it did. It helped.
I think an investment of $300 million at this time in South Vietnam could
very likely be a key for the preservation of their freedom and might con-
101
