[45]
January 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
MR. BROKAW. I wonder if we can move to another area in the world, or would
you like to go back to the Middle East?
MR. CHANCELLOR. I have one question I would like to put to the President.
Sir, when we talk about strangulation—and I hope we don't talk about it any
more tonight after this, because I do think it is the hypothetical, I agree with
you on that—what about the moral implications? If a country is being strangled
by another country or set of countries that own a natural resource, is it moral
to go and take that? It is their oil; it is not ours. Isn't that a troublesome
question?
THE PRESIDENT. I think it is a troublesome question. It may not be right, John,
but I think if you go back over the history of mankind, wars have been fought
over natural resources from time immemorial. I would hope that in this decade
or in this century and beyond, we would not have to have wars for those pur-
poses, and we certainly are not contemplating any such action. But history, in
the years before us, indicates quite clearly that that was one of the reasons why
nations fought one another.
VIETNAM CONFLICT
[3.] MR. BROKAW. Mr. President, what are our objectives now in Southeast
Asia, in Vietnam, particularly?
THE PRESIDENT. Vietnam, after all the lives that were lost there, Americans,
over 50,000, and after the tremendous expenditures that we made in American
dollars—several years, more than $30 billion a year—it seems to me that we
ought to try and give the South Vietnamese the opportunity, through military
assistance, to protect their way of life.
This is what we have done traditionally as Americans. Certainly since the end
of World War II, we have helped innumerable nations in military arms and
economic assistance to help themselves to maintain their own freedom.
The American people believe, I think, historically, that if a country and a
people want to protect their way of life against aggression, we will help them
in a humanitarian way and in a military way with arms and funds if they are
willing to fight for themselves. This is within our tradition as Americans.
And the South Vietnamese apparently do wish to maintain their national
integrity and their independence. I think it is in our best tradition as Americans
to help them at the present time.
MR. BROKAW. How much longer and how deep does our commitment go to
the South Vietnamese?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think there is any long-term commitment. As a matter
100
