[220]
April 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
budget, far too little attention has been focused on the ways in which gov-
ernment regulations levy a hidden tax on the American people. In the nearly
90 years since we created the first Federal regulatory commission, we have built
a system of regulations which abounds with contradictions and excesses, all to
the detriment of the public.
There are sound estimates that government regulations have added billions
of unnecessary dollars to business and consumer costs every year. To reverse
this trend of growing regulation, my Administration is working hard to iden-
tify and to eliminate those regulations which now cost the American people
more than they provide in benefits. I feel strongly, just as the Chamber does,
that we must keep and improve those regulations which work, but we have
an obligation to discard those that do not.
Let me review with you for a moment some of the steps we are taking to make
sure that we concentrate not on rhetoric, but on results.
First, I have asked all offices within the executive branch to evaluate the infla-
tionary impact of significant legislation, rules, and regulations which we propose.
Let me say that I am delighted that the House of Representatives has also adopted
changes in its rules to require the measurement of the cost of legislation before
it is adopted.
Most people would agree that some regulation is needed, but only when we
know the costs of proposed government actions can we rationally determine how
much regulation we're willing to pay for. For example, is it worth as much as $30
billion a year of the consumer dollar to reduce the level of occupational noise
exposure by approximately five decibels? Have airbags been proven sufficiently
cost-effective for us to require their installation in all cars at between $100 and
$300 each?
Earlier this year, I sent to the Congress a comprehensive program to seek
energy sufficiency for our Nation. Among the highest priorities of this effort
is my proposal to remove, as quickly as possible, the Federal price controls on new
natural gas sold in interstate markets. At present, the artificially low price of
natural gas marketed interstate has curtailed exploration and development and
forced users, shut out by present shortages, toward either curtailment of their
operations or greater dependence on oil. Inevitably, inaction this year by the
Congress will result in plant shutdowns and job layoffs. We cannot afford that
bad result.
We have already submitted a financial institutions act, which should phase
out some of the most anticompetitive Federal regulations governing banks and
thrift institutions. The American people will benefit if all financial institutions
602
