April 8
[174]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
174
Remarks at a Reception for Members of the National
Alliance of Businessmen. April 8, 1975
Chairman Rockwell, Carl Hartnack, John Condon, and my old friend,
Bob Wilson, members of NAB:
It is a great privilege and pleasure to welcome you all to this White House
reception. It is the least, I think, we in Government, can do to thank you indi-
vidually and collectively for the work that you and your organization are
doing for America.
Last summer I had the privilege of speaking at your national conference here
in Washington and predicted that you would not let the problems of inflation
and economic downturn prevent you from meeting your objectives of finding
jobs for America's disadvantaged Vietnam veterans and our many, many needy
American youngsters.
Now, after the reports that I have heard on the progress you have made during
the first half of this fiscal year, I am convinced that my prediction of last
summer was one of the most accurate I could have made—maybe a bit more
accurate than some others I have made.
But anyhow, in spite of the present economic conditions, you are right on
target on providing jobs and training for some 485,000 adults this fiscal year.
Last summer—and I commend you for it—you exceeded your goal of 200,000
summer jobs for needy youngsters by more than 25 percent, and that is a great
accomplishment, and I commend you and thank you for it.
The key to the American success story, as I see it for nearly 200 years now,
has been a single word, and we should emphasize it and reemphasize it—
opportunity.
Generation after generation, that opportunity has been expanded, and it can
and it will be expanded in the years ahead.
That opportunity has been made available to more and more people with,
thank goodness, fewer and fewer barriers. We have not eliminated them all.
Some still remain-barriers of poverty, ignorance, prejudice, just to mention
a few.
We don't like them. We won't tolerate them. We are going to eliminate them.
However, thanks to the National Alliance of Businessmen, great progress is
being made, and all of you who are here today should be thanked by those who
have been blessed by what you have made available.
451
