[290]
May 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. Those bilateral discussions between myself and the heads of
state were carried out in the traditional fashion. In each case, the foreign min-
ister representing the other government and Secretary Kissinger were present.
They were constructive. They were, I think, a free discussion where the parties
there fully participated.
THE MIDDLE EAST
[10.] Q. Mr. President, in your meetings with the full Council and with
the individual heads of state and government, did there come up in the con-
versation the difficulties you have had in trying to get a Middle East peace
settlement, and did you come away with a feeling that you will have support
of the member nations in your efforts in Vienna [Salzburg] with President
Sadat and later in Washington with Rabin?
THE PRESIDENT. In almost every bilateral meeting, the question of the Middle
East did come up. In each instance, we gave our reassessment procedure. We
indicated that I was meeting with President Sadat in Salzburg and then subse-
quently meeting with Prime Minister Rabin in Washington.
We pointed out the three alternatives that have been well written about. We
indicated that any views or recommendations that might be made by the heads
of state or the foreign ministers would be most welcome.
We did reemphasize that our objective in the Middle East was peace, that
we could not tolerate stagnation or a stalemate. We felt that movement was
essential in the recommendations that I do make, sometime the latter part of
June, early July, will be a position of movement aimed at the objective of a
secure peace in the Middle East, and I think, the feeling of the allies here was
one of—supportive of the general objectives without getting into any of the
procedures or the details.
MR. CORMIER. Thank you, Mr. President.
NOTE: President Ford's fourteenth news conference
began at 7:29 p.m. in the press center at the Brussels
Sheraton Hotel, Brussels, Belgium.
In addition to attending the morning and a por-
tion of the afternoon sessions of the NATO Council
meeting, the President held separate meetings with
Prime Ministers Harold Wilson of the United King-
dom, Pierre Elliott Trudeau of Canada, Geir Hall-
grímsson of Iceland, Trygve Bratteli of Norway, and
with François-Xavier Ortoli, President of the Com-
mission of the European Communities.
748
