May 1
[225]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
utilized to the maximum extent possible. But the additional authority of $327,-
000,000 will be required to fully meet immediate needs.
The authority of this legislation, followed by appropriations as soon as possible,
is necessary to continue this operation, to integrate the evacuees into the United
States and other countries and to permit consideration of further humanitarian
assistance which may be consistent with the provisions of H.R. 6096 and Amer-
ican policy objectives.
I urge the immediate enactment of H.R. 6096.
Sincerely,
GERALD R. FORD
NOTE: For the President's statement on the failure of the House of Representatives to approve H.R. 6096,
see Item 231.
225
Letter to the Speaker of the House and the President of the
Senate Concerning Oil Price Controls and Import Fees.
May 1, 1975
[Dated April 30, 1975. Released May 1, 1975]
THREE and one-half months have passed since I presented the Nation and the
Congress with a comprehensive program to achieve energy independence by
1985. Although the policy I put forth was not an easy solution, it was, and remains
today, the only comprehensive and workable national energy program. Be-
cause of the seriousness of the problem, I also moved to cut energy demand and
increase supply to the maximum extent within my administrative discretion by
announcing a three step increase in the fees on imported petroleum starting
last February 1 and complete decontrol of old oil prices by April 1.
After imposition of the first dollar of the additional import fees, the majority
leadership in the Congress requested that I delay further actions to provide time
to evaluate my proposals, to formulate an alternative comprehensive energy
plan and to enact legislation. I granted a 60 day delay in the spirit of com-
promise, in spite of the fact that we already waited much too long to make the
hard decisions our country needs.
In the 60 days that followed, a number of Congressional energy programs
were introduced and considered. Little progress has been made though. Thus,
I am forced to again make a difficult administrative decision.
609
