[125]
March 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
What we need is speed and a figure of $16 to $19 billion in tax reduction. If
we delay—and I hope it is not—then delay is more of a problem than the size.
Q. Sir, in the bill that came out of the House, you really got a different kind
of character to that bill than the one you proposed. Theirs has a greater percent-
age going to lower income groups, and yours would go more to middle and
higher income groups. Would you veto a bill if it got to your desk in the form
it came from the House, or how would you feel about the House bill?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think it is wise for me to speculate on what I would do
with the House bill. It does have to go through the Senate committee, it does
have to go through the Senate itself, and then it has to go to conference and
come down to me. For me to speculate at this stage, I think, is very unwise.
I would like to add this, however: I agree with Secretary of the Treasury
Simon, who testified yesterday or the day before that there ought to be a larger
increase for the middle-income taxpayer. I think the House version of the bill
was much too limited. It didn't give a sufficiently large rebate or tax reduction
to the middle-income taxpayers, and those people, I think, deserve a break
because in recent years they have gotten a heavier and heavier burden imposed
on them.
FORMER PRESIDENT NIXON
[9.] Q. Mr. President, I am wondering if you agree, sir, with Leon Jaworski,
who feels that the time has now come for former President Nixon to tell the
truth about Watergate?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think it is appropriate for me to give any advice to
Mr. Nixon on that matter at this time. A fairly comprehensive story has been
told in the impeachment hearings in the House, in the testimony of many, many
people in the court here in the District of Columbia. I think the proper place for
any further discussion in this regard is in the court system of the United States.
TERRORIST ATTACK AT TEL AVIV
[10.] Q. What effect do you think last night's massacre in Tel Aviv will
have on the current Kissinger negotiations, and what advice would you give to
Israel to counteract such terrorist attacks?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me answer the last first. I don't think it is appropriate for
me to give any advice to Israel or any other nation as to what they should do in
circumstances like that. I hope that the very ill-advised action, the terrorist
action in Israel, or in Tel Aviv last night was absolutely unwarranted under any
circumstances. I condemn it because I think it is not only inhumane but it is
the wrong way to try and resolve the difficult problems in the Middle East.
328
