[358]
June 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
ess-which uses much less power than the older process-is almost ready for
commercial application.
I believe we must move forward with both technologies and encourage com-
petitive private entry into the enrichment business with both methods. A pri-
vate gaseous diffusion plant should be built first to provide the most urgently
needed increase in capacity, but we should proceed simultaneously with com-
mercial development of the centrifuge process.
With this comprehensive approach, the United States can reopen its uranium
enrichment “order book,” reassert its supremacy as the world's major supplier
of enriched uranium, and develop a strong private enrichment industry to help
bolster the national economy.
For a number of reasons, a certain amount of governmental involvement is
necessary to make private entry into the uranium enrichment industry successful.
The initial investment requirements for such massive projects are huge. The
technology involved is presently owned by the Government. There are safe-
guards that must be rigidly enforced. The Government has a responsibility to
help ensure that these private ventures perform as expected, providing timely
and reliable service to both domestic and foreign customers.
Under the legislation I am proposing today, the Energy Research and Devel-
opment Administration would be authorized to negotiate and enter into con-
tracts with private groups interested in building, owning and operating a
gaseous diffusion uranium enrichment plant.
ERDA would also be authorized to negotiate for construction of several
centrifuge enrichment plants when more definitive proposals for such projects
are made by the private sector.
Contract authority in the amount of $8 billion will be needed, but we expect
almost no actual Government expenditures to be involved. In fact, the creation
of a private enrichment industry will generate substantial revenues for the
United States Treasury through payment of Federal income taxes and compen-
sation for use of Government-owned technology.
Under the proposed arrangements, there will be an opportunity for foreign in-
vestment in these plants, although the plants will remain firmly under U.S.
control. There will be no sharing of U.S. technology and, there will be limita-
tions on the amount of capacity each plant can commit to foreign customers.
In addition, all exports of plant products will continue to be made pursuant
to Governmental Agreements for Cooperation with other Nations. All will be
subject to appropriate safeguards to preclude use for other than agreed peaceful
purposes.
886
