January 3
[2]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
industry suffering from increased imports and more effective adjustment assist-
ance for workers, firms, and communities.
The legislation allows us to act quickly and to effectively counter foreign
import actions which unfairly place American labor and industry at a disadvan-
tage in the world market.
It authorizes the Administration, under certain conditions, to extend non-
discriminatory tariff treatment to countries whose imports do not currently
receive such treatment in the United States. This is an important part of our
commercial and overall relations with Communist countries.
Many of the act's provisions in this area are very complex and may well prove
difficult to implement. I will, of course, abide by the terms of the act, but I must
express my reservations about the wisdom of legislative language that can only
be seen as objectionable and discriminatory by other sovereign nations.
The United States now joins all other major industrial countries, through this
legislation, in a system of tariff preferences for imports from developing coun-
tries. Although I regret the rigidity and the unfairness in these provisions,
especially with respect to certain oil-producing countries, I am now undertaking
the first steps to implement this preference system by this summer. Most devel-
oping countries are clearly eligible, and I hope that still broader participation
can be possible by that time.
As I have indicated, this act contains certain provisions to which we have
some objection and others which vary somewhat from the language we might
have preferred. In the spirit of cooperation-spirit of cooperation with the
Congress I will do my best to work out any necessary accommodations.
The world economy will continue under severe strain in the months ahead.
This act enables the United States to constructively and to positively meet chal-
lenges in international trade. It affords us a basis for cooperation with all trading
nations. Alone, the problems of each can only multiply; together, no difficulties
are insurmountable.
We must succeed. I believe we will.
This is one of the most important measures to come out of the 93d Congress.
I wish to thank very, very generously and from the bottom of my heart the
Members of Congress and members of this Administration—as well as the
public-who contributed so much to this legislation's enactment.
At this point, I will sign the bill.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:04 p.m. in the
East Room at the White House.
As enacted, the bill (H.R. 10710) is Public Law
93-618 (88 Stat. 1978).
3
