[180]
April 11
Public Papers of the Presidents
in launching our space program and through my experiences, as Tiger Teague
knows, on the Defense Appropriations Committee where we did a good bit of
funding for our related military operations, I am a complete believer in the
accomplishments, the mission of a good, fine, forward-looking, visionary space
program for America.
So, I am delighted to congratulate you, Colonel Carr, and let me read the
citation as a part of the award given by the National Space Club here. The
citation reads as follows:
"The Robert H. Goddard Memorial Trophy is presented to the nine Skylab
astronauts for their exceptional accomplishments in the Skylab program. They
demonstrated that man can live in space for an extended period. They estab-
lished beyond question the preeminence of the United States in space explora-
tion."
It is a great tribute to the nine who have participated. It is a great tribute to
the people in NASA. It is a tribute, I think, to the Congress and administrations
in the executive branch. And it is basically a reward for the faith that the
American people have had in what we have to do in looking skyward, down
the road, for a bigger and better world in which we can all live.
Congratulations.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:30 p.m. in the
Cabinet Room at the White House. Col. Gerald P.
Carr, USMC, accepted the award on behalf of the
astronauts.
In his remarks, the President referred to James C.
Fletcher, Administrator of the National Aeronautics
and Space Administration, and Representative Olin
E. Teague, chairman of the House Science and
Technology Committee.
181
Letter to the Speaker of the House and the President of the
Senate Transmitting Proposed Legislation To Assist the
Republic of Vietnam. April 11, 1975
I HEREBY transmit draft legislation to carry out the recommendations made
in my April 10, 1975 address to the Congress with respect to Indochina.
The enclosed draft bills authorize additional military, economic, and humani-
tarian assistance for South Vietnam, and also clarify the availability of funds for
the use of the Armed Forces of the United States for humanitarian evacuation
in Indochina, should this become necessary.
474
