May 2
[234]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
of the stronger among nations. This has produced an
accumulation of tensions in every area—even in
every part of the world-which has been detrimental
to some and which has been a catastrophe for the
large number.
Because of its size, prestige, the genius of its
people, and the wisdom of its leaders, the United
States must play a decisive role in order to bring
about a period of peace and prosperity throughout
the world. When he came to Tunisia, Secretary
Tabor compared the world situation to a vessel
which carries a large number of passengers, but
which also carries a very big and bulky elephant.
Now, this is a very dramatic picture, and I believe
that the passengers on this vessel want as much
as the elephant to come together, to come to an
understanding, so that they will not all together
tumble overboard and find themselves at the bottom
of the sea.
Mr. President, I am convinced that the meetings
that we shall have with the high leaders of your
Administration, as well as with some of the
honorable Members of the Congress, will bring
about very positive results and will strengthen
the free and fruitful cooperation that has existed
between our two countries within the framework of
our common pragmatic approach, and the spirit of
¹John K. Tabor, Under Secretary of Commerce.
support and solidarity which has always motivated
the Government and the people of the United States
with respect to Tunisia.
When we think of the celebration next year of
the Bicentennial of the United States, Mr. President,
I cannot keep myself from thinking back upon the
faith of those proud founders, their vision, who, two
centuries ago, united the American people to free
their people and build here the greatest democracy
the world has ever seen. As directed by President
Bourguiba, Tunisia will be happy to participate in
this manifestation, and it will offer as a contribu-
tion to the celebration an exhibition of some of
the most beautiful mosaics, which retrace life in
Tunisia under the Roman empire.
Throughout the ages and over time, from the
very first steps of the Pilgrims who landed upon
an unfriendly shore all the way to the first steps
of your astronauts over the Moon, your history is
a succession of stunning victories over nature, to
wrest from nature its secrets and put them at the
service of man. This has been made possible through
the genius, the perseverance, and the courage of
your research workers and your scientists.
I want to raise my glass, Mr. President, to peace.
and free cooperation among nations. And let us
raise our glass to the prosperity of the American
people and friendship between Tunisia and the
United States.
234
Remarks to Members of the Board of the National
Education Association. May 2, 1975
Thank you very much, Bill. President Harris, Commissioner Bell, Frank Zarb,
members of NEA, and guests:
It's a great privilege and a pleasure for me to have an opportunity of saying a
few words following the comments of John Dunlop and Frank Zarb.
In preparation for my comments this morning, I did a bit of reviewing of the
history of NEA. And it was amazing to me that I found that NEA has been a
very powerful influence for a long, long time in the history of the United States-
over 118 years.
The material that I saw indicated that it was organized back in 1859. And I
think that it's quite interesting to note that President Buchanan, in 1859 as I
recall, had the total membership of NEA over in the East Room, and according
to the statisticians, there were some 55 members.
625
