January 16
[33]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
balance between energy and environment, and Russ Train, head of EPA, has
agreed that the California standards in this case are sound.
When you come right down to it, as I said yesterday, we are in trouble. I think
we have got some answers. The responsibility now is on the shoulders of the
Congress. I have been assured by the Democratic as well as the Republican leader-
ship that they will cooperate with us. I hope they will pass my legislation intact,
but that may be too much to expect.
They have a responsibility. But we need action—that is the main thing—
and we need it promptly, both in the economy and in energy. So, I hope that you
with your vast political background and support can urge the Members of the
House on both sides of the aisle to move as rapidly as possible in these two very
vital areas.
If they act on legislation, I think we can have some answers to these two very
perplexing problems that the country faces. As I said yesterday, if we do what is
necessary at home, the impact abroad will be most significant. It will restore our
own confidence, and it will reinvigorate the trust and belief that others through-
out the world have in the United States.
I am an optimist. I think the Congress will act. I think we will execute the
programs. And instead of hanging together, we can enjoy the future together.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:48 p.m. in the East
Room at the White House at the conclusion of the
briefing conducted by Vice President Nelson A.
Rockefeller, Secretary of the Interior Rogers C. B.
Morton, Secretary of the Treasury William E. Simon,
and Federal Energy Administrator Frank G. Zarb.
33
Remarks to Members of the U.S. Industrial Payroll Savings
Committee. January 16, 1975
Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Chairman, and Mr. Chairman-to-be,
ladies and gentlemen:
It is a pleasure to be here in 1975, and I thank all of you for coming and
participating.
About a year ago I was asked to join a similar group down at the State Depart-
ment. I think George Shultz was the Secretary at that time and John deButts
was about to undertake the responsibilities from Mel Batten, and I was in a
junior executive capacity. [Laughter]
55
