May 28
[287]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
There is much work to be done on this relatively brief trip. But I feel con-
fident that I can represent a strong and united America-an America deter-
mined, with its allies, to safeguard our vital interests. The United States is
equally determined to reduce the chances of conflict, to increase cooperation,
and to enhance the well-being of Americans and all peoples. I go determined
to advance our common interests with our friends and allies and with great
pride in our great country.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:43 a.m. at Andrews Air Force Base, Md. His remarks were broadcast live
on television.
287
Remarks on Arrival at Brussels, Belgium.
May 28, 1975
Your Majesties, Prime Minister Tindemans, Secretary General Luns, ladies and
gentlemen:
Thank you so very much for your warm and very gracious welcome to Brus-
sels. It is always a great privilege and pleasure to return to the city that many
know as the capital of Europe.
Thirty years ago, Western Europe was the victim of wartime devastation,
facing hostile forces seeking to dominate the entire continent. The courageous
leaders on both sides of the Atlantic responded by creating the North Atlantic
Treaty Organization.
Our Alliance has withstood the changes and the tests of the past 26 years. It
has helped to secure freedom and prosperity for the Western World. It is fitting
that the purpose of my first trip, Your Majesty, to Europe as President of the
United States is to participate in a NATO summit.
I want my NATO colleagues and the people of Europe to know that our
great Alliance remains very strong—to guarantee that vitality, we must vig-
orously address the problems confronting us; that the United States is convinced
that détente with the East can only proceed on a foundation of strong and secure
Alliance defenses; that NATO is the cornerstone of U.S. foreign policy and has
the unwavering support of the American public and of our Congress; and
finally, that our commitment to this Alliance will not falter.
It is in this spirit that I meet with my colleagues in NATO to discuss issues
of direct concern to the peace, the security, and the prosperity of our Atlantic
community.
735
