June 4
[306]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
I think it is instructive to recall that this Academy was founded during the
Jeffersonian administration. Thomas Jefferson was consistently suspicious of
large standing armies and an ardent supporter in his insistence on civilian
authority over the military. Nevertheless, Thomas Jefferson was a champion of
quality and educational excellence. President Jefferson knew that freedom's
defense could not be entrusted to amateurs in a world of expansionist powers
and opportunistic pirates. Whatever price our poor and youthful Republic had
to pay for its full independence and the protection of its lawful interest, Jefferson
and the Congress of his day—and, I might add, the people—were willing to pay.
I believe that the Americans of 1975 are just as willing to pay that same price.
That is why I continue to press for a comprehensive 10-year program to develop
enough domestic energy to make the United States fully independent of foreign
oil and externally fixed prices that threaten both our economic health and our
national security. This could be another convincing demonstration to our allies
and to our adversaries that Americans have lost neither their nerve nor their
national will.
All of the encouraging declarations of commitments to mutual defense and
mutual progress which I heard at the NATO summit conference in Brussels
last week will be meaningless unless the industrial democracies have assured
themselves of sources of energy to power both their economic and their military
efforts. Once again, the United States is looked to for leadership and for example.
Of course, energy independence is going to cost us something. Of course, an
adequate level of defense is going to cost us something. But the price of sacrifice
is far less than the price of failure. Freedom is never free, but without freedom,
nothing else has value.
No previous graduating class in the history of West Point will be called upon
to fill so many different roles and to perform so many exacting missions as the
class of 1975. Like those who preceded you, you must know military strategy,
tactics, and logistics. You must master the increasingly complex machinery of
warfare. You must learn the lessons of leadership.
But today, as never before, you will need a sense of history, a grasp of eco-
nomic principles, an appreciation of science, a mastery of geopolitics and diplo-
matic conventions. The Commander in Chief can state a policy and issue an
order, but only disciplined and dedicated subordinates can successfully carry
it out.
Each of you must understand that in the complexities of today's world, we
must, of necessity, pursue complex policies. We must be, at the same time,
both strong and conciliatory. While we must at all times maintain a defense
771
