[82]
February 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
amount to, if you just divide it equitably? Not many people in this country; and
very few in Texas can go very far in their daily chores or their work on what,
about a gallon and three-quarters a day?
Well, I just hope that the good people of Texas and the surrounding States in
this part of our great country won't succumb to what some say is an answer to
the energy problem. Gasoline rationing is about the poorest answer that I can
imagine.
Thus far, as I have read and heard the debate, the energy debate in the Con-
gress has focused mostly on oil. This, as you well know, oversimplifies the prob-
lem. Our energy difficulties involve much more than oil. One of our most impor-
tant energy sources, and the most acceptable from an environmental point of
view, is natural gas. Despite the pluses of natural gas, let us consider for a mo-
ment the very sorry history of natural gas policy in the United States.
Over the past 20 years, the Federal Power Commission has set the price at the
wellhead for natural gas sold in interstate markets. Since supplies in the early
days seemed ample, the emphasis by Federal regulators was placed on minimum
prices to consumers. Natural gas prices were held to artificially low levels. Real
prices for natural gas fell throughout the 1960's; demand for natural gas doubled
between 1957 and 1972. Not surprisingly, the rate of exploration and develop-
ment on new gasfields dropped off.
A further distortion of natural gas markets resulted when producers kept
natural gas supplies inside their respective States, where they were not subject to
Federal regulation-under a restrictive statute-and where prices are set by
supply and demand. This intrastate market has contributed to the completion of
a greater number of gas wells. All of this, of course, leads to the conclusion there
must be an incentive to find and develop new natural gas supplies. To do this,
we must cease Federal regulation of prices on new gas for interstate use.
Supplies to current consumers are being rapidly and very drastically reduced in
relation to market demand. Major interstate pipeline companies, in the year end-
ing March 1973, fell short of meeting contract requirements by some 925 billion
cubic feet of gas. In the year ending March 1974, the short fall was estimated at
1,200 billion cubic feet. That is comparable to 200 million barrels of oil. The
entire country is affected by these reductions in deliveries, now running at a rate
of well over 100 percent more than the 1973-1974 heating season curtailments.
I am told by some of my shortsighted Members and friends of the Congress
and others that there is no urgency in this matter. I wish that were true, but the
facts are otherwise. The facts are that one of the Nation's most pressing energy
problems is a real and increasingly serious shortage of natural gas. Unless our
212
