[216]
April 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
personal relationship that I've tried to develop with State legislative leaders since
I've been President.
As I said at the outset, I've had the honor and the privilege of meeting with
joint groups in four State legislative bodies, and I've had the privilege of meet-
ing with many State legislative leaders in other States throughout the Union.
And I assure you that on a personal basis I will continue it, and members of my
staff, my Administration will expand it.
Now, some of you were here with me last year when I had the opportunity
to make some observations and comments. As a matter of fact, it was one of my
very first meetings as President of the United States—just 20 days after moving
into the White House. Since then, I've sought to keep our dialog alive. I've met
with, as I've indicated, individual members of legislative bodies as well as groups
in joint sessions. And I can assure you, those opportunities will be expanded
as we move ahead.
Let me say that I'm more interested in substance than in dialog. In my
judgment, actions are more important than words. For too long a time, power,
expertise, initiative, and most important of all, revenues have been drained away
from your State capitals to the National Capital in Washington. With this in
mind, I have an announcement I would like to make at this time.
Immediately before meeting with you today, I signed the transmittal letter
for a message to Congress and a draft bill to extend and revise general revenue
sharing.
In brief, this proposed legislation will do the following: retain the present
revenue sharing formula; secondly, authorize funds for 5 years; three, in-
crease some cities' shares by easing per capita restraints; four, improve the
protection of individual rights; five, increase citizen participation. And it
would also include the following: permit a more flexible system of reports—
and from what I've heard, this is something that is badly needed—and lastly,
require renewal consideration 2 years prior to expiration.
Now, I'm convinced that this legislation is in the best interests not only of
State governments but of the American people. It takes a good concept, revenue
sharing, and extends it, at the same time including some very important im-
provements and refinements. And it provides the taxpayer with a very strong
voice on how his tax money is spent on a local basis.
In proposing the legislation, I'm trying to do my part for State and local
government and, I think, in a very constructive way. And I hope I can count on
all of you―on State legislative leaders, on Governors, mayors, county officials—
586
