[233]
May 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
problems or international matters, to which the
Tunisian people pay particular attention, our political
action has always b.en clear and consistent. Our
calling is that of an Arab nation, of a Mediterrancan
nation, of an African nation. It is based upon the
principles of law, justice, and freedom. Those are
the very principles which guided us yesterday in our
struggle for liberation, which guide us today in our
will to develop our country.
The world in which we live will not lead you
to all-out optimism. If détente appears to place itself
within an historical context as a growing reality
and if contacts among the great powers concerning
disarmament are pursued, still many problems await
to be solved.
In our part of the world, and more particularly
in the eastern part of the Mediterranean arca, peace
remains precarious. We have followed with sus-
tained attention the very laudable efforts of Dr.
Kissinger. Even though they have not succeeded to
attaining tangible and immediate results, we believe
that the mission of the Secretary of State has the
great merit of bringing forth very clearly the re-
sponsibilities of each party. Now, international
opinion knows clearly that if it was not possible
to bring about the initiation of the peace process,
the fault lies primarily upon the intransigence of the
Israeli leaders.
We must observe that today most international
organizations, most nations have finally recognized
the legitimacy of the struggle waged by the Pales-
tinian people, a people who derives its strength
from its right to live in a sovereign manner upon the
land of its ancestors in freedom and dignity. It is an
allusion to attempt to build a just and durable
peace in the Middle East without the participation of
the representatives of the Palestinian people. That is
why we have always advocated a return to inter-
national legality. The organization of the United
Nations, at the same time as in 1947 it was drawing
up the document giving birth to the State of Israel,
was also simultaneously defining its boundaries.
Upon our African continent, colonialism has not
entirely laid down its arms. Millions of African
nationals continue to suffer the injustices of discrim-
ination and oppression. There also, we hope that
reason will prevail, and we feel that the international
community must strive to spare these innocents the
unfortunate events which usually accompany violent
reactions.
We must also observe sadly that the sufferings of
the civilian populations of the Southeast Asian arca
do not appear to have reached their final point. We
hope that the voice of reason and of the heart will
prevail over any other consideration and that very
soon a tragedy which has cost much and lasted long
will come to an end.
Tunisia has consistently felt and stated that it is
detrimental to resolve problems in an atmosphere of
resentment and violence. We remain convinced that,
throughout the world, dialog must prevail over the
recourse to blind force and the judgment of arms.
Those are the lines along which we feel that the
solution of the major issue preoccupying today the
governments must be found, and I refer, of course,
to the economic crisis which has broken out world-
wide and which gives a more precarious character to
international balance, which already, by its very
nature, is an unstable balance. We feel that it is
urgent to reexamine the rules and principles which
have, up to now, ruled international relationships in
the economic and financial fields.
In this connection, Tunisia feels that the new
economic order is a vital nced in order to raise the
standard of living of hundreds of millions of men
and women, and in order to exorcise the scourges of
poverty, hunger, disease, and ignorance which
weigh so heavily upon nearly half of mankind.
Tunisia is convinced, not only for ethical and
idcological reasons but because it feels deeply
that this is the essential, the essential token for
international security, and that this is indispensable
for the development and the harmonious fulfillment
of the individual human being. Tunisia is also con-
vinced that mankind as a whole must and can
make progress toward setting up this new economic
order in a serene and concerted manner, not in a
fruitless confrontation.
Developed nations, particularly the United States,
are facing historic responsibility to contribute to the
setting up of this economic order which should be
worldwide and more equitable, because it is very
true that the economies of the rich nations and of
the poor nations are interdependent and comple-
mentary. This has been demonstrated clearly.
There is wide opportunity for fruitful and promis-
ing cooperation in the interest of all, and consulta-
tion and dialog should replace the passionate
behavior or the sectarian attitudes and intransigent
selfishness. The world is evolving in such a manner
that a reconsideration of the relationship between
industrialized nations and developing nations is a
must. The laws of market alone may not rule these
relationships, because if there is a certain legitimacy
there, still it is not the sole justification and it is
not admitted without any restrictions by the Third
World nations.
The main international bodies which arose out
of World War II claimed-probably this was the
generous intent of their founders-claimed to take
into account the interests of their members. But
experience has proved that if they did indeed contrib-
ute substantially to those who were less well en-
dowed, they were still not in a position to foresee
the pace of evolution of our societies, and they were
in a certain sense called upon to manage the interests
624
