[305]
June 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
States and Italy together, as partners in the Atlantic Alliance, will enjoy similar
success in meeting the complex and difficult challenges before us.
In this way, we can contribute to the prospects of a peaceful and prosperous life
for the people throughout the world.
On behalf of Mrs. Ford and myself, you have our sincere thanks, our deepest
appreciation for the hospitality and the many kindnesses extended to us at all
levels during every moment of our stay.
As we prepare to leave this beautiful country, I am reminded of the saying
that fond memories spare departures for final sorrow. Thus, we cannot leave Italy
in sorrow, for we carry far too many warm memories of a very special day with
gracious friends.
I thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:23 p.m. at Leonardo
da Vinci Airport, Fiumicino, Italy.
President Leone spoke in Italian. His remarks
were translated by an interpreter as follows:
Mr. President:
Upon your departure, I should like once again to
say to you and Mrs. Ford how pleased we are to
have had this opportunity of meeting you again.
The intensive and fruitful talks that I, Prime
Minister Moro, Foreign Minister Rumor, and other
members of the Italian Government have had with
you and Dr. Kissinger have once again concerned the
friendly, constructive, and firm spirit with which
our two countries are facing the problems which
concern them both on the bilateral and the general
plane.
Your trip to Europe, in which you so opportunely
included this short visit to Rome, has been of great
importance. The Brussels summit in particular has
shown the vitality of the Alliance. It is a guarantee
of our collective security and also an essential condi-
tion for détente and peace.
Our talks today have concerned the existence of a
full agreement of views on this essential point and a
common wish to seek the solution of problems re-
lating to peace and to political and economic stability
in Europe and in the Mediterranean, in particular in
the Middle East area, as well as those problems of a
global dimension which are characteristic of our ties.
Thank you for the kind words you have just said
and for the lofty things you said about my country.
In thanking you again for the good will that you
have displayed to us, I wish you every success in our
ongoing cooperation and in your enlightened work
at the head of the American nation.
306
Commencement Address at the United States Military Academy.
June 4, 1975
General Berry, Senator Mathias, Congressmen Montgomery, Fish, and Gilman,
Secretary of the Army Callaway, members of the graduating class, honored
guests, ladies and gentlemen:
On March 26 of this year, at the White House ceremony, I had the very great
honor to present the American Cancer Society's award to one of the outstand-
ing members of this graduating class, the captain of the Army's football team,
Cadet Robert E. Johnson. I, obviously, don't have to tell you how richly deserving
of this award Bob Johnson is.
768
