January 4
[11]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
in programs transferred to tribal operation to continue working without losing
Federal fringe benefits, thus making it possible for the tribe to begin operation
with a nucleus of experienced employees.
The granting authority provided in this act can also be used to strengthen
tribal governments and tribally-funded programs.
Title II, the Indian Education Assistance Act, amends the Johnson-O'Malley
Act to give the Indian community a stronger role in approving or disapproving
the use of funds for children in public schools. It also provides for better plan-
ning in the use of these funds to meet the educational needs of the Indian
students.
The enactment of this legislation marks a milestone for Indian people. It
will enable this Administration to work more closely and effectively with the
tribes for the betterment of all the Indian people by assisting them in meeting
goals they themselves have set.
NOTE: As enacted, S. 1017, approved January 4, 1975, is Public Law 93-638 (88 Stat. 2203).
11
Statement on Signing the Federal-Aid Highway Amendments
of 1974. January 4, 1975
I AM SIGNING S. 3934, the Federal-Aid Highway Amendments of 1974.
This bill contains three energy-related provisions which I find highly desir-
able. First, it will establish 55 miles per hour as the national speed limit on a
permanent basis. This limit has proven to be of great value in not only saving
fuel but in decreasing the loss of life on our highways.
Second, this bill will extend the carpooling demonstration program for 1
year, until December 31, 1975. This program provides funds to States and
localities to encourage the use of carpools. The Department of Transportation
has estimated that it could save this country 5 billion gallons of gasoline a year.
In addition, it will reduce air pollution and urban congestion.
Third, the bill will increase the allowable weights for trucks on interstate
highways. Largely because of the lower speed limit, many truckers have found
themselves in an economic bind, with decreased productivity. This modest
increase in allowable truck weights should help them regain that productivity,
without threatening public safety on the highways.
Unfortunately, the bill would also make many undesirable changes in the
highway programs. For one, it would provide $347 million in additional
11
