[91]
February 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
foreign policy any more than the day-to-day conduct of military operations by
many, many different voices in the deliberative legislative branch.
Our system has served us so well. Without reviewing all 200 years of our his-
tory and the frequent debates between our great political parties, I can say from
my own perspective—and that of many of you—that the record of American
foreign policy since the end of World War II has been, overall, a most remark-
able success.
When World War II was ended, the world waited to see what the United
States would do, whether our power and our moral commitment would con-
tinue to be engaged worldwide or whether we would retreat again into the
isolationism that contributed to the world conflict in the first place.
With the Marshall Plan, the Truman Doctrine, and the formation of our
first peacetime alliances, we provided an essential bulwark of security, stability,
and economic progress for the world.
In the 1970's, we built on this wonderful foundation with imagination and
startling success. We ended America's 10-year military involvement in Vietnam.
We ended it with honor and brought home our prisoners of war. We ended the
crisis in Berlin. We achieved unprecedented agreements in strategic arms con-
trol with the Soviet Union. We fashioned a new relationship with China. We
ended a war in the Middle East and have been instrumental in moving the
parties to the conflict toward a stable and lasting peace. We began a new dialog
with Latin America. We launched an international effort to meet the challenge
of a global food crisis. We have taken up the role of leadership to promote
international cooperation in the field of energy.
I think this is a remarkable achievement for America. It is evidence of what
the United States can accomplish when it shows the will and the determination
to persevere and a demonstration of the historic reality that there is no alterna-
tive to American leadership. Our diplomacy is still the best hope of the world
in finding solutions to age-old conflicts. We respect the trust which countries
place in us on both sides in so many regional disputes.
But we have not been involved in the world simply out of altruism-though
we need not apologize for that—but because the kind of world America lives in
directly affects the kind of lives Americans live at home. Today, more than ever,
peace and prosperity at home and abroad are completely indivisible. Never
before has the state of this Nation depended more on the state of the world.
In a world of continuing complexity, America's role in promoting peace is
indispensable. In the conflicts in the Middle East, including Cyprus, our media-
tion efforts have been indispensable. In a world of proliferating nuclear weap-
252
