[84]
February 11
Public Papers of the Presidents
So, what I am saying to you is, as we move ahead, I hope the Congress will
abandon what they are doing and join with me in working together in a posi-
tive way to solve America's problems. And I ask for your counsel, your sugges-
tions, and ultimately, your support. And the sooner we act, the better it will be
for Kansas as well as the other 49 States.
Consider, for example, the impact that further delay in the energy field will
have on farmers here in your great State as well as other agricultural States.
Unless we start now to achieve energy independence, the American farmer will
grow more and more dependent on the foreign oil cartel for the energy products
that the farmer needs to sow and to reap his crops. His costs, his profits, and his
productivity will be at the mercy of a foreign force or a combination of them.
The farmer would be trapped between growing pressures for lower food
prices in the marketplace and higher costs from his energy suppliers. Any way
you look at it, this is a no-win proposition for the American farmer, and that
is one of the reasons why I am so adamant about our need to act now on the
energy front. We can't let things slide away any further. We have waited far
too long already.
At the same time, though, I recognize that the farmer may well be concerned
about the immediate impact the energy program that I suggest will have on
his operations. In the short term, our conservation taxes on foreign oil will
raise his energy costs. I can understand, as a consequence, his concern. And we
intend to do something about it.
In the State of the Union Message that I gave to the Congress on January 15
and in my subsequent television address to the Nation on the economy, I stressed
that no industry, nor any geographical area would be allowed to suffer a dis-
proportionate burden of the energy program. And this promise and pledge def-
initely applies to the American farmer.
I renew that pledge today. As long as I am President, the American farmer
will receive the fuel he needs to do the job for 213 million Americans and
many others throughout the world. I will not let the American agriculture run
out of gas.
As a tax relief, the result of increasing the investment tax credit from 7 to
12 percent will be a savings of some $360 million for America's farmers and
ranchers.
I have also instructed the Federal Energy Administrator, Frank Zarb, to
design for the agricultural community a rebate program to compensate the
American farmer for increased energy costs caused by our conservation program.
We will be announcing the details of this program within the next several weeks.
218
