March 21
[152]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
It represents an American answer, not one based on uncertain resources in
faraway lands with different ideas and diverse interests. It represents our hope
for the future. Coal is America's ace in the hole. We now know the impact
of relying on foreign energy sources. The cost of foreign oil to the United
States quadrupled in the past several years, soaring to more than $24 billion
last year. Is there any wonder, therefore, that you and I are here this evening?
The United States of America has gone to the Moon. And now it's time to
use the same skill and ingenuity here on Earth. We must rediscover America.
We must put our people to work to uncover the resources and discover the
unknowns in our own backyard.
That is why I proposed the energy independence act last January 30. Several
parts of that proposal are of great significance to the coal industry. Let me recall
some of them briefly:
-Amendments to the Clean Air Act to permit greater use of coal when there
is no threat to public health and where alternative pollution control meth-
ods can be effectively used;
—An extension of authority and enforcement of the Energy Supply and Envi-
ronmental Coordination Act to use more coal in powerplants instead of
oil and natural gas;
-Proposals to strengthen the financial health of electric utilities, which con-
sume two-thirds of the country's coal production;
-Proposals to expedite the development and siting of energy facilities in
cooperation with the States;
-Measures to provide needed authority to prevent other nations from under-
cutting our efforts to develop domestic resources and achieve energy
independence.
I also proposed legislation to regulate surface mining and reclamation of coal
lands. This would provide appropriate balance between the urgent need to
increase coal production and the need to protect the environment. I stand today
as squarely behind these proposals as the day I sent them to Congress. It was
good legislation then. It is good legislation now.
The strip mining bills that have been passed by the House and Senate during
the past 2 weeks contain some positive environmental provisions I support and
some unnecessary parts that I cannot. These unnecessary provisions will hinder
coal production.
The bill I proposed also sought to avoid unnecessary loss of coal production
and added costs to the consumer. A few numbers will illustrate this point.
393
