[306]
June 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:03 a.m. at Michie
Stadium. In his opening remarks, he referred to
Lt. Gen. Sidney Berry, USA, Superintendent of the
United States Military Academy.
307
Remarks at Graduation Ceremonies at Holton-Arms
School, Bethesda, Maryland. June 5, 1975
Mr. Hamilton, Headmaster Lewis, Bishop Walker, members of the graduating
class, trustees and faculty, fellow parents, students, and guests:
Obviously, it is a very great pleasure to be here at Holton-Arms this morning,
sometimes known as the “Topsider capital of the world.” [Laughter]
This is my second commencement exercise this week. Yesterday, I had the
great privilege of speaking to the graduating class at West Point, in my dual
capacity as President and Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces.
This morning, along with Betty and many, many others in this audience, I
am here at Holton-Arms in an equally important role—that of a very proud
parent. I may have slipped and tumbled coming down those steps at Salzburg
last week, but today I can assure you I am walking on the clouds.
Let me apologize to the members of the graduating class for having to turn
my back on both you and your very attractive commencement dresses. But I do
have to admit I am a little surprised to see them. I was told by Susan that the
commencement dresses you wore as juniors last year were such a big hit you
were going to wear them again this year. [Laughter] I understand that dress
was so popular that Headmaster Lewis was even given a tie that was made up
from one. He wore it home, and the dog bit him. [Laughter]
You might also be interested to know that my daughter Susan gave me some
very specific advice on this speech. She asked me not to talk too long, not to tell
any jokes, not to talk about her, and not to talk about the way things were when
I was your age. So, in conclusion-[laughter]———
Actually, at graduation it is hard not to reminisce just a bit, because cere-
monies such as this mark the end of an important segment of our lives and the
beginning of another.
As you leave a very secure life here at Holton-Arms, with established goals
and patterns and friends of many, many years, most of what you learned will,
hopefully, go with you. But you leave the familiar for the unknown, and little
of what you will face in the future will be as predictable as the past.
774
