February 14
[94]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
In the meantime, as you prepare to resume your duties at Harvard, I want
you to know that you take with you my warmest best wishes for every con-
tinued happiness and success in the years ahead.
Sincerely,
[The Honorable Phillip Areeda, The White House, Washington, D.C.]
NOTE: Mr. Areeda's letter of resignation read as
follows:
Dear Mr. President:
Permit me to submit my resignation as Counsel
to the President.
I am grateful for the opportunity you have given
me to serve the country once more. But now that I
have done all that I can as Counsel to help in
establishing your Administration, I have satisfied
my commitment in coming to the White House last
Fall. I plan therefore to return to my teaching and
scholarship at Harvard.
JERRY FORD
I shall be honored to render any occasional future
assistance that you might find useful after my
return to Cambridge in several weeks. I leave behind
my warmest good wishes for your personal well-
being and for the success of your Administration.
Yours respectfully,
PHILLIP AREEDA
Counsel to the President
[Honorable Gerald R. Ford, President of the United
States, The White House]
94
Statement on the Death of Representative Jerry L. Pettis
of California. February 14, 1975
MRS. FORD and I were deeply grieved to learn of the plane crash that took the
life of our old friend, Representative Jerry Pettis.
Jerry Pettis was more than just a Member of the House of Representatives.
He also excelled as a rancher, teacher, aviator, religious leader, and businessman.
Jerry brought the insights he gained in these varied fields to his work in the
Congress and his position of leadership among House Republicans.
It was my great privilege and pleasure to work closely with Jerry for 8 years—
first as a colleague in the House, and then as President. I will miss his loyal
support and wise counsel.
Mrs. Ford and I extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, Shirley, and to his
family.
NOTE: Representative Pettis was a Member of Congress from 1967 until his death on February 14, 1975.
259
