April 21
[201]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
on the continent. Africa cannot allow them to
continue, and we urge America not to allow them
to continue.
Victory for the majority is a matter of time, a
matter of time. Let us, therefore, make it as pain-
less as possible to those who have dominated their
fellow men for years.
Mr. President, we wish America to understand our
aims and objectives. We are not fighting whites. We
are fighting an evil and brutal system. On this
there must be no compromise, none at all.
America should also understand our strategy. We
want to achieve our objectives by peaceful methods
first and foremost. Africa is ready to try this ap-
proach with patience and exhaust all possible tactics,
for peace is too precious, is too precious for all of
us. But our patience and the patience of the op-
pressed has its limits.
Mr. President, we are here only for a short time.
We have no other mission except to take the op-
portunity of the visit to put Africa's stand clearly.
We want to avoid confrontation, but let us not be
pushed.
Once again, Mr. President, on behalf of my wife
and my compatriots and, indeed, on my own be-
half, I thank you, Mrs. Ford, and all our colleagues,
brothers and sisters, for this warm welcome and
hospitality.
This is indeed a memorable visit, memorable
because it has been fruitful, and it coincides with
the launching only yesterday of your Bicentennial
celebrations. We congratulate the people of the
United States for their tremendous achievements
since independence, which have justified the anti-
colonialist struggle of their Founding Fathers.
Finally, I take the opportunity of inviting you,
Mr. President and Mrs. Ford, to pay a visit to
Zambia. We will be happy to receive you in our
country at any time convenient to you.
And may I say, sir, at that time I might answer
the challenge of playing golf. [Laughter]
I now invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to join me
and my wife and my colleagues in this toast to the
President and Mrs. Ford.
Mr. President, Mrs. Ford, bilateral relations.
201
Special Message to the Congress Reporting on Budget
Rescissions and Deferrals. April 21, 1975
[Dated April 18, 1975. Released April 21, 1975]
To the Congress of the United States:
I herewith report four new proposed rescissions and six new deferrals as
required by the Congressional Budget and Impoundment Control Act of 1974.
In addition, I am transmitting two supplementary reports which revise deferral
reports made to the Congress in previous special messages.
Five of the reports contained herein are withholdings in the fourth quarter
of funds authorized under the Continuing Resolution for the Department of
Health, Education, and Welfare. Resolution of two of these items might be
better served by action upon the Administration's appropriation request for
health planning and emergency school aid in the Second 1975 Supplemental
Appropriation bill now pending before the Congress.
The items I am submitting in this special message, along with other actions
I have already proposed, provide a means of restraining budget outlays and
thereby can help hold the fiscal year 1976 budget deficit within reasonable
bounds. When I signed the tax reduction bill on March 29, 1975, I noted that the
estimated 1976 deficit had reached about $60 billion and was threatening to go
537
