April 16
[190]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
tion contest. I certainly would not lift my hand to try and get any State to do
away with a Presidential primary election law.
I think a good contest is helpful for the public, for the candidate, and I
would not, under any circumstances, try to undermine the decision of any
State to continue its Presidential primary legislation.
Q. Thank you, Mr. President.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:26 p.m. in the
Regency Ballroom at the Shoreham Americana
Hotel. He was introduced by Howard H. Hays, Jr.,
president of the society.
Later the same day, the President hosted a White
House reception for members of the society.
190
Remarks at the Annual Awards Dinner of the White House
News Photographers Association. April 16, 1975
Mr. President, Chairman Johnston, Mr. Ambassador, members of the Cabinet,
distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen of the White House News Pho-
tographers Association, survivors of Vail, guardians of the front gate at Burn-
ing Tree, followers of Eric Rosenberger, and my very good friends:
As I look at this wonderful audience tonight, all I can say is, if I've ever heard
of stakeouts, this is ridiculous. [Laughter]
Obviously I'm delighted, along with Betty, to be here tonight on this 54th
anniversary of the White House News Photographers Association, and it's a
pleasure to see all of you so relaxed and so unrushed.
In fact, I think one of your members was trying to tell me something about
my schedule. He said it's easy to tell a White House photographer these days,
because you all carry a very little card in your wallet, easily accessible. It says,
"I am a White House photographer. In case of accident, don't do a thing. I need
the rest." [Laughter]
Let me thank you, President Boston, for that very thoughtful gift, which
Betty and I will cherish. And I thank you for the kind introduction. You know,
President Boston, that really has a ring to it. I think all of us understand that.
President Boston and I didn't have much of an opportunity to get acquainted
during our very short meeting before Betty and I came, but we did exchange
a few words before the awards.
I asked President Boston, “Do you ski?" He said, “No.” I said, “Do you play
golf?” He said, “No.” I said, “Have you ever played football?” He said, “No.”
I said, “Do you make your own breakfast?" He said, "No." Now, I don't want
505
