April 18
[197]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
197
Remarks in Boston at the Old North Church Bicentennial
Lantern Service. April 18, 1975
Bishop, Vicar, dear friends:
Two hundred years ago tonight, two lanterns hung in the belfry of this Old
North Church. Those lanterns signaled patriots on the other side of the Charles
River British troops were moving by water. As Longfellow said in his poem:
"One if by land, and two if by sea.”
Paul Revere, William Dawes, Samuel Prescott rode into the night, alerting
the colonists the British were coming. When day broke, according to the diaries
of the time, the sky was clear and blue.
British troops had crossed the Charles River. They marched all night, and
after a skirmish at Lexington, the Redcoats arrived at Concord. There a volley
was fired by our Minutemen, what Emerson called "the shot heard round the
world." The American war for independence had begun.
Tonight we stand in tribute to those who stood for liberty and for us two
centuries ago. Tonight, we bow our heads in memory of those who gave their
lives, their limbs, their property for us during that historic struggle, because
tonight we begin as a nation and as a people the celebration of our Bicentennial.
Alexis de Tocqueville, the French historian, wrote of our beginnings: “In
that land, the great experiment was to be made, by civilized men, of the attempt
to construct society on a new basis."
Over the decades, there were challenges to that experiment. Could a nation
half-slave and half-free survive? Could a society with such a mixture of peoples
and races and religions succeed? Would the new Nation be swallowed up in
the materialism of its own well-being? The answers are found in the history
of our land and our people.
It is said that a national character is shaped by the interplay of inheritance,
environment, and historical experience. Our inheritance is basically that of
Western Europe. From the English, we received the traditions of liberty, laws,
language, and customs.
The American inheritance has been constantly enriched by people from
Western and Eastern Europe, from Asia and Africa, as well as Latin America
and many other parts of this great globe. Over 200 years, some 50 million immi-
grants have been absorbed in our society. Though our national origins are not
forgotten, all of us are proud to be simply called Americans.
525
