[267]
May 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
I just thank all of you for what you have done and what you will do in
making this job easier and better for people that we want as good Americans.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:07 p.m. in the
East Room at the White House.
On the same day, the White House released an
announcement of the appointment of 17 members
268
of the Committee. The announcement is printed in
the Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents
(vol. 11, p. 533).
Special Message to the Congress Proposing Reform
of Railroad Regulations. May 19, 1975
To the Congress of the United States:
I am today sending to the Congress the Railroad Revitalization Act. This
legislation is the result of several years of study and consultation with industry
and Congressional authorities. It builds on the Surface Transportation Act
which was overwhelmingly passed by the House of Representatives last Decem-
ber. In view of the prior work in the 93rd Congress and the serious needs of the
Nation's railroads, I am confident that the Congress can and will act quickly.
The purpose of this legislation is threefold: (1) To improve the regulations
under which the railroads operate and promote economic efficiency and com-
petition, (2) to provide necessary financial assistance to improve and modernize
rail facilities, and (3) to encourage rational restructuring of the Nation's rail-
roads and improve their long-term viability. To achieve these objectives, the
legislation proposes specific amendments to the Interstate Commerce Act to
permit increased pricing flexibility, to expedite ratemaking procedures, to out-
law anticompetitive rate bureau practices and to improve and expedite merger
and other restructuring actions. In addition, the bill will make available $2
billion in loan guarantees.
Submission of this bill is part of my Administration's overall program to
revitalize our entire free enterprise system. It is the first of several legislative
proposals seeking fundamental reform of the regulatory practices which govern
the economics of the transportation industry. Such regulation, established long
ago, in many instances no longer serves to meet America's transportation or
economic needs. Consumers too often bear the costs of inefficient regulation
in the form of either inadequate service or excessive cost. Therefore, in addition
to this railroad bill, I will soon submit proposed legislative reforms for both
trucking and airline regulation. Taken together, these proposals, when enacted,
690
