July 3
[377]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
377
Statement on the Observance of Independence Day.
July 3, 1975
My fellow Americans:
As we begin the 200th year of our independence as a nation, we the people
of the United States still enjoy the blessings of liberty as we continue to build
a more perfect union for ourselves and our posterity.
The great goals of America are never fully gained; the future of America is
always brighter than its glorious past; the destiny of America demands the best
of each succeeding generation, as it does of us today. While we cherish the many
heritages that enrich our land, we of all peoples have no history except what
we have written for ourselves. We are not Americans alone by birth or blood,
by oath or creed or compact among princes. We are Americans because we
deliberately chose to be one nation, indivisible, and for 199 years with God's
help we have gone forward together.
Our Nation's first century saw the firm establishment of a free system of gov-
ernment on this continent, from Atlantic to Pacific. Our first century produced
political institutions responsible to the people and confirmed at tragic cost the
proposition that all Americans are created equal. Our Nation's second century,
now ending, saw the development of a strong economic society in the free
climate which our political institutions sustained. Our second century trans-
formed an underdeveloped country into the mightiest and most productive
nation in human history, with ever more widespread sharing of economic gains
and of responsibility for the less fortunate of our neighbors. Two centuries of
sacrifice and struggle, of conflict and compromise, have gained for us an un-
precedented measure of political and economic independence.
We have on this Independence Day of 1975 a free government that checks
and balances its own excesses and a free economic system that corrects its own
errors, given the courage and constructive cooperation of a free and enlightened
citizenry. This is the amazing history Americans have written for themselves as
we begin our Bicentennial celebration.
But what will be the goal of our Nation's third century? I see the great chal-
lenge of our third century as the advancement of individual independence in
this "sweet land of liberty."
We must devise safeguards for the sacred identity of each and every American,
to protect personal freedom and individuality from the daily pressures of con-
927
