July 4
[379]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
On this special day, I salute the working men and women of America for the
outstanding contributions they have made and will continue to make through
honest, productive, and fairly rewarded labor.
379
Remarks in Baltimore at the Fort McHenry National Monument
and Historic Shrine. July 4, 1975
Thank you very much, Judge Northrop. Governor Mandel and Mrs. Mandel,
Senator Beall and Mrs. Beall, distinguished Members of the House of Repre-
sentatives-Congressman Long, Congressman Gude, Congressman Holt, Con-
gressman Bauman, Congressman Spellman, Congressman Sarbanes-Mayor
Schaefer, our country's newest citizens, and all of you wonderful people from
Baltimore and the great State of Maryland:
We meet here tonight at the twilight's last gleaming. The casemate walls and
the silent cannons of Fort McHenry bear a very quiet testimony to a nation's
travail on another night in another age. We all know that Francis Scott Key
enshrined forever those events in 1814. The patriotism and the national pride
surrounding our flag, our country, and their defense that night are our heritage
in a song and a verse. “The Star-Spangled Banner” is an expression of our love
of country.
We must not be so sophisticated, so blase that we ignore those simple but
eloquent moments of our history. We need to remind ourselves that America
is really "the land of the free and the home of the brave." And we should be
proud of it.
We are honored, every one of us, by those who earlier this evening became
our United States newest citizens, and we should give them a special round of
applause right now. They have chosen what often is taken for granted among
many of us.
The hallmark of our first century was the establishment of a free government.
In the face of the greatest odds, 13 poor, struggling colonies became a fledgling
nation. Its future, in those dark days and weeks and months, was insecure. In the
first 100 years, the western movement accelerated-vast territories were acquired,
States joined the Union, constitutional issues were raised. Wars were fought, none
more devastating than the one that turned American against American. Yet,
through that horrible ordeal, it was resolved that this Nation would not endure
half slave and half free. The Union was preserved.
929
