May 3
[237]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
gratulate the distinguished members of the White House Correspondents As-
sociation on your valiant, courageous, and successful struggle to achieve one of
the greatest and most consequential journalistic triumphs of all time. I am re-
ferring, of course, to your heroic efforts to keep the press plane from converting
to no frills. [Laughter]
I don't know how you spend your time on the press plane. All I know is that
every time I call it I say, "This is the President calling," and a voice answers,
"I'll drink to that, too." [Laughter]
I knew something was going on when I saw Dick Growald write 10 pages
of notes at my Tulane speech, and that isn't easy with a swizzlestick. [Laughter]
Then Aldo Beckman came over and said hello and melted my cufflinks.
[Laughter]
Betty and I have looked forward to this evening, because the White House
Correspondents dinner is always an adventure. First, there is the reception, fol-
lowed by the dinner, followed by the private parties, followed by the private,
private parties, followed by the nightcap after the private parties. Through the
years, I've found that a White House Correspondents dinner is a little like one
of Sarah McClendon's questions. You never really know when it's finished.
[Laughter]
I have been coming to these dinners for quite a few years now, and I am em-
barrassed to admit I don't really know a great deal about how the White House
Correspondents Association operates. But since I am always interested in the
electoral process, I asked Jim Deakin, "Just how do you go about choosing your
president and vice president?” Jim said, “It's rather hard to explain in a few
words, but the procedure does have the seal of approval." I said, "Of what?” He
said, "Cook County." [Laughter]
Incidentally, you may be interested to know that Ron Nessen's fame as a
press secretary and his unparalleled skill at carrying out the duties of his office
has spread far and wide. Last week at the Columbia School of Journalism in
New York City, 50 graduate students were asked this question: "If you had the
chance to study the art of the simple, direct communication with Ron Nessen,
what would you ask for first?" Ninety-six percent answered, “Another chance."
[Laughter]
Another member of our staff has also achieved considerable recognition, David
Hume Kennerly. The very first day Dave Kennerly came to the White House to
be my personal photographer, he shook my hand and promised to do for me
exactly what he had done for his last employer. I said, "Great.” Then I remem-
bered who he had worked for-Life. [Laughter]
635
