[60]
January 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
shortages and dependency which the Nation cannot tolerate and the American
people will not accept.
Sincerely,
GERALD R. FORD
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters addressed
to the Honorable Carl Albert, Speaker of the House
of Representatives, and the Honorable Nelson A.
Rockefeller, President of the Senate. The summary
of the proposed legislation was included as part of
the release.
61
Toasts of the President and Prime Minister Wilson
of the United Kingdom. January 30, 1975
Mr. Prime Minister and Mrs. Wilson, our distinguished guests:
We are very deeply honored and we are greatly pleased to have both of you
and your party here with us this evening. You have been guests in this house
before, and I hope you have enjoyed it tonight as well as you have enjoyed your
previous occasions. My wife and I consider ourselves very fortunate to have this
opportunity to extend our hospitality to both of you, both officially as well as
personally.
The great heritage that we have, that we share, draws our two countries
together. George Bernard Shaw once remarked that we are two nations separated
by the same language. Nevertheless, I believe you will agree that what unites us
is vastly more significant than our differences.
As you put it so well on a previous visit, Mr. Prime Minister, Britons and
Americans communicate effectively because we share a common background
of understanding. And each of us is aware that behind these few words lie
volumes of thought and experience which do not need to be articulated, and of
course, this is a priceless asset to both our nations and our enduring friendship.
Mr. Prime Minister, another aspect of our common heritage is our devotion to
democracy, our faith in the wisdom of people. And you and I have spent most
of our adult life in government in one capacity or another.
This year marks the 30th anniversary of your election as a member of the
Parliament where you have built an extraordinary record of achievement, leader-
ship, and service to your country.
My own election to the House of Representatives was in 1948, when one of
our guests-Hubert Humphrey—and I were both elected, he to a more
prestigious office, in the minds of some Members of the Congress—[laughter]—
138
