[103]
February 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
103
Remarks Upon Receiving the Man of the Year Award From the
Reserve Officers Association of the United States.
February 21, 1975
Mr. Chairman, General Sorensen, distinguished Members of the Congress,
members of the executive, fellow members of ROA:
This is a very high point in my career of public service. I, of course, am
extremely proud of the award that Senator Stennis has read, but as I look at
the names of those who have been previous winners, I feel very humble in their
company. They have been men of great strength, great wisdom, tremendous
dedication. They were big leaguers in every sense of the word, and to be a part
of that group is a great honor. And I am deeply grateful and most thankful.
Thank you very much, General Sorensen.
I am especially grateful for this high honor because of the boundless respect
and admiration I have always had for the members of the Reserve Officers
Association. The ROA has never lost sight of the goal of a strong and a secure
America—a nation that stands steady because it stands ready. And to the
fullest capacity that I can, I pledge to you that I will always stand shoulder-to-
shoulder with the men and women here tonight who have helped to make
this strength a reality.
As a member of the ROA, I want you to know how delighted I am to be here—
to renew old friendships and to recall so many very happy memories.
Let me ask this question: Tell me, has this ever really happened to you? Be-
fore coming here tonight, I started reminiscing about my active service some
years ago. I was telling my very dear wife, Betty, how our ship won the war in
the Pacific. [Laughter] I have told her that quite a few times, and she still does
not believe me.
I got a little nostalgic, and then I made a tactical error. I tried to put on my
old Navy uniform. [Laughter]
Have you noticed how something happens to those old uniforms when you
keep them in the closet too long? They start to shrink, particularly around the
middle. Well, it took me 5 minutes to get into the coat and, then, 10 minutes
to get into the pants. Incidentally, some of my critics might be interested to know
the cap I put on still fits. [Laughter]
But I will tell you what finally changed my mind about wearing my blues
tonight. Betty came over, took one look. And believe me, there is nothing more
270
