April 3
[167]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
main ingredient that, in my judgment, will take America from the disappoint-
ments of the present to the optimism of the future.
FRANK CORMIER [Associated Press]. Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much.
NOTE: President Ford's twelfth news conference
began at 12:01 p.m. in the Silver Room at the San
Diego Convention and Performing Arts Center, San
Diego, Calif. It was broadcast live on radio and
television.
167
Remarks at the White House Conference on Domestic and
Economic Affairs in San Diego, California. April 3, 1975
Thank you very much, Bill. Congressman Burgener, Congressman Van Deerlin,
Congressman Bell, Mayor Pete Wilson, Mr. Cox of the San Diego Chamber of
Commerce, and Mr. Henning of the AFL-CIO, heads of the many other co-
sponsoring organizations that have made this possible, ladies and gentlemen:
It is really a great privilege and honor for me to have the opportunity of joining
in this obviously very successful conference.
I am especially delighted to be here again on the beautiful shores of San Diego
Bay-can I say this? I mean it-America's cleanest bay in terms of size and
traffic. I am especially pleased, because this is a showcase of what Americans can
do on a local level to solve problems and to respond to the future with creativity
and with confidence.
San Diego has demonstrated, Mayor Wilson, that environmental quality is
good business, and I commend your carefully managed residential growth. San
Diego, as I see it, is truly a city on which others could be modeled.
I am especially proud, however, of the role of the United States Navy as a
good citizen in San Diego. I am proud of that role and I am proud of the
contributions that the Navy makes. Obviously, all of you know that the naval
installations here are among the greatest in our total Navy complex. I pledge to
you today, as one who once sailed from here in World War II, that I remain
committed to a Navy second to none in readiness, capability, and dedication to
our Nation's highest ideals.
I know, of course, that the concerns of this area go far beyond your vital Navy
installations. Too many Americans are without employment. Prices and taxes
are far too high. New sources of energy are absolutely essential.
I also know that local problems are best solved by local people. This Adminis-
tration responded to your pioneering of growth management strategy to preserve
423
