[102]
February 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
the new two-way street that I am trying to build between our statehouses across
America and the White House in Washington.
I'm particularly happy that so many of the wives have joined us this evening.
Betty and I welcome you and your husbands as friends, as coworkers in a very
great cause, and as first ladies and chief executives of your States, the Com-
monwealth of Puerto Rico, and our Commonwealths.
During the past few weeks, I have had a very wonderful and, I think, bene-
ficial opportunity to exchange views with many of you who are here this evening.
I have listened closely to your suggestions for programs. I think that has been
helpful to me and, I trust, as well to you. And I have explained to those that I
have had an opportunity to, our views and our proposals. I believe we have
achieved—even though we may have disagreed—a greater degree of under-
standing which we can build on in the years and months ahead.
Tonight we have a former Governor with us, my good friend, Nelson Rocke-
feller of New York. As you know, I have designated Nelson as Vice Chairman
of my Domestic Council since he had such a very distinguished career and
record as a Governor, which will be invaluable to him in this new role. I am
counting on him to bring to the Domestic Council not only his wide experience
as a Governor at the State level but also the concerns and the ideas that he can
get from you who have had the practical experience along with him in this very
important responsibility.
One area where Nelson is already hard at work is the congressionally man-
dated maze of hundreds of categorical grant-in-aid programs. When we are
confronted, as we are now, with severe economic difficulties, it becomes even
more imperative, in my judgment, that we begin to disassemble this maze of
categorical grant programs.
I am extremely aware of the difficult problems facing you in the statehouses
and our friends in local units of government. Revenues have not kept pace with
the demand for services and the increases in cost. And because of fiscal problems
at the Federal level, aid to State and local units of government cannot continue
the increase of the past few years. It is therefore, in my judgment, of the highest
importance that we remove some of these restrictions on Federal grants.
strongly favor—I'm sure you know by now-block grants over categorical
programs.
I am asking the Congress to reduce some of the overwhelming complexity of
the maze and give State and local units of government the greater flexibility in
this area of need, where fewer Federal grants can go further than where you
have the categorical approach. And these funds, if properly handled—and I have
268
