May 29
[289]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
tion in Europe are translated into action to advance freedom and human dignity
for all Europeans. Only by such realistic steps can we keep CSCE in perspective,
whatever euphoric or inflated emphasis the Soviet Union or other participants
may try to give it. Another agenda item should be the negotiations on mutual
and balanced force reductions in Europe. We in NATO should be prepared to
take appropriate initiatives in these negotiations if they will help us to meet our
objectives. But the Soviet Union and its allies should also be prepared to respond
in good faith on the common objectives both sides should be working toward—
undiminished security for all, but at a lower level of forces.
-Fifth, let us look to the future of the West itself. We must strengthen our
own democratic institutions and encourage the growth of truly democratic
processes everywhere. Let us also look beyond our Alliance as it stands today.
As an important topic on this agenda, we should begin now to consider how
to relate Spain with Western defense. Spain has already made and continues to
make an important contribution to Western military security as a result of its
bilateral relationship with the United States.
-Sixth, we should rededicate ourselves to the Alliance as a great joint enter-
prise, as a commitment to follow common approaches to shared aspirations.
We must build on the contribution our Alliance already makes through the
Committee on the Challenges of Modern Society in coping with the environ-
mental problems of industrialized societies. We must address the issues of
population, food, and raw materials. We must find ways to strengthen the
world trading and monetary system and to meet the imperatives of energy
development and conservation. With the wealth and technological skills which
are the products of our free systems, we can make progress toward a better
standard of life in all of our countries if we work together.
These six primary tasks of the Alliance illustrate the breadth and depth of our
responsibilities and opportunities. They reflect how very complex the world has
become and how much more difficult it is to manage the Alliance today than a
generation ago. Then, our problems were relatively simple to define; it was easier
to agree on common solutions. Today, the problem of definition seems more
complicated. In many of our countries there has been a fragmentation of public
and parliamentary opinion, which has made it more difficult for governments to
mobilize support for courses of action of importance to the Alliance.
But there are constants as well, and they are—in the final analysis—more
important than the complexities. Together we continue to be the greatest
reservoir of economic, military, and moral strength in the world. We must use
741
