January 16
[32]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
tion too high, with the other problems we have, is not a very happy responsibility,
and you probably know it as well as I do.
But let me add this, if I might: Benjamin Franklin once said that we must
all hang together or most assuredly we will all hang separately, and that includes
Democrats as well as Republicans.
So, those at the local level, those at the State level, and those of us at the
Federal level have a reason, a sound, constructive reason to work together so
we preclude the possibility of all hanging together.
What can we do? We in the Federal Government have initiated a plan in
the field of energy and the economy. In the latter, we are going to stimulate
the economy, we are going to make things better; and in the field of energy,
if we get the legislation, we will solve those problems.
All of you are, of course, particularly interested in the difficulties of unemploy-
ment. You see, even more dramatically than I do, the long unemployment lines.
My State of Michigan, of course, has about as hard a situation as any, if not the
worst.
So, what we have got to do on a temporary, short-term basis is restore public
confidence, give people back some money to have it available to spend, to gen-
erate sales in hard goods-automobiles, appliances, et cetera—and at the same
time provide temporary relief in the extension of unemployment compensation
and to provide public service employment.
The Congress, in December of last year, on my recommendation, did pass
a broadened, expanded public service law,' and that legislation has been funded.
It will be implemented on an accelerated basis. It, of course, is an add-on, in
effect, to the Comprehensive Education and Training Act, CETA, as they call it.
This public service employment in this legislation is distributed to cities on a
formula basis. In order to make it work well, if we do our job, we have to get
cooperation from the cities, and I trust that our people are doing a good job.
If they aren't, let us know.
The 13-week extension of unemployment and the broadening of the unem-
ployment legislation for better coverage also should be extremely helpful. In
the legislation there are some provisions that give some special help to rural
areas in the sewer and water project aspect. We have as deep a concern about
rural unemployment as we do about municipal unemployment.
In addition, there is a provision that provides for some funding of rather
short-term public works projects. Our experience in the Federal Government
See 1974 volume, Item 328.
51
