[257]
May 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
American crew along with the retaking of the ship Mayaguez. For that pur-
pose, I ordered late this afternoon [May 14] an assault by United States Marines
on the island of Koh Tang to search out and rescue such Americans as might
still be held there, and I ordered retaking of the Mayaguez by other marines
boarding from the destroyer escort Holt. In addition to continued fighter and
gunship coverage of the Koh Tang area, these Marine activities were supported
by tactical aircraft from the Coral Sea, striking the military airfield at Ream and
other military targets in the area of Kompong Som in order to prevent rein-
forcement or support from the mainland of the Cambodian forces detaining the
American vessel and crew.
At approximately 9:00 p.m. EDT on 14 May, the Mayaguez was retaken by
United States forces. At approximately 11:30 p.m., the entire crew of the
Mayaguez was taken aboard the Wilson. U.S. forces have begun the process of
disengagement and withdrawal.
This operation was ordered and conducted pursuant to the President's con-
stitutional Executive power and his authority as Commander-in-Chief of the
United States Armed Forces.
Sincerely,
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters addressed
to the Honorable Carl Albert, Speaker of the House
GERALD R. FORD
of Representatives, and the Honorable James O.
Eastland, President pro tempore of the Senate.
258
Remarks of Welcome to Mohammad Reza Pahlavi,
Shahanshah of Iran. May 15, 1975
IT IS an honor to welcome our distinguished guests, His Imperial Majesty, the
Shahanshah of Iran, and Her Imperial Majesty, the Shahbanou, once again to
our National Capital.
The visit of Your Imperial Majesties reflects the cordial, personal, and close
governmental relations between the United States and Iran through many ad-
ministrations. Ours is an old and tested friendship; it will continue to be so in
the future.
Since Your Imperial Majesties last visited Washington, the world has seen
many changes. But throughout this period, the United States commitment to
peace and progress for the world has remained firm. Our commitment to a
670
