[28]
January 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
of our lives today. This is not a moment for the American people to turn in-
ward. More than ever before, our own well-being depends on America's deter-
mination and America's leadership in the whole wide world.
We are a great Nation-spiritually, politically, militarily, diplomatically, and
economically. America's commitment to international security has sustained
the safety of allies and friends in many areas-in the Middle East, in Europe,
and in Asia. Our turning away would unleash new instabilities, new dangers
around the globe, which, in turn, would threaten our own security.
At the end of World War II, we turned a similar challenge into an historic
opportunity and, I might add, an historic achievement. An old order was in
disarray; political and economic institutions were shattered. In that period, this
Nation and its partners built new institutions, new mechanisms of mutual sup-
port and cooperation. Today, as then, we face an historic opportunity. If we
act imaginatively and boldly, as we acted then, this period will in retrospect be
seen as one of the great creative moments of our Nation's history.
The whole world is watching to see how we respond.
A resurgent American economy would do more to restore the confidence of
the world in its own future than anything else we can do. The program that
this Congress passes can demonstrate to the world that we have started to
put our own house in order. If we can show that this Nation is able and willing
to help other nations meet the common challenge, it can demonstrate that
the United States will fulfill its responsibilities as a leader among nations.
Quite frankly, at stake is the future of industrialized democracies, which
have perceived their destiny in common and sustained it in common for 30 years.
The developing nations are also at a turning point. The poorest nations see
their hopes of feeding their hungry and developing their societies shattered
by the economic crisis. The long-term economic future for the producers of
raw materials also depends on cooperative solutions.
Our relations with the Communist countries are a basic factor of the world
environment. We must seek to build a long-term basis for coexistence. We will
stand by our principles. We will stand by our interests. We will act firmly
when challenged. The kind of a world we want depends on a broad policy of
creating mutual incentives for restraint and for cooperation.
As we move forward to meet our global challenges and opportunities, we must
have the tools to do the job.
Our military forces are strong and ready. This military strength deters aggres-
sion against our allies, stabilizes our relations with former adversaries, and
44
