[193]
April 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
But I have known many of the United States Senators and Representatives from
your great State, and I can say that you can be proud of men like Norris Cotton
and others.
May I just conclude by saying this, that I came to New Hampshire first back
in the late 1930's. I came up here for the purpose of skiing, but in the process
of going to Tuckerman's Ravine and going down the headwall, I became very
familiar with the terrain.
But it is a great, great State with all its beauty, and it is an even greater State
with all of the wonderful people. I thank you again for the warm welcome.
It is a wonderful day, and I am most grateful.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:15 p.m. at Hampshire Plaza.
194
Remarks on Arrival at the New Hampshire State Capitol
in Concord. April 18, 1975
Good morning. Governor Thomson, Speaker of the House of Representatives,
President of the Senate, distinguished members of the legislature, distinguished
Members of Congress, ladies and gentlemen:
It is really a great privilege and a very high honor to have the opportunity
of coming to this wonderful community, your State capital, in a State that has
a long and enviable history and tradition.
You may not be biggest, but you certainly are strong in character and won-
derful people. The Granite State is the proper word to underscore the strength
of all of you, and I thank you for your warm welcome.
I am especially gratified and pleased and most appreciative for the warm
welcome of Governor Thomson. I am also very appreciative of the invitation
to speak to the State legislature.
Fortunately, a good many years ago, I came to the State of New Hampshire-
back in the late 1930's. I was trying to learn to ski, but in the process, I became
well acquainted with a great many people from this State.
Over the years, I have had a great experience in knowing such outstanding
people as my good friend Norris Cotton, who so ably represented the State
of New Hampshire in the House of Representatives as well as the United
States Senate.
You know, I have been doing a little reading about New Hampshire history,
and I found that the people of New Hampshire-before the Continental
510
