February 4
[70]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
necessary adjustment should not hamper our progress toward the goal of a
much slower rate of increase in the general price level in the years ahead.
As we face our short-term problems, we cannot afford to ignore the future
implications of our policy initiatives. Fiscal and monetary policies must support
the economy during 1975. In supporting the economy, however, we must not
allow victory in the battle against inflation to slip beyond our grasp. It is vital
that we look beyond the unemployment problem to the need to achieve a reduc-
tion in inflation not only in 1975 but also in 1976 and beyond.
The future economic well-being of our Nation requires restoring a greater
measure of price stability. This will call for more responsible policies by your
Government. The stakes are high. Inflation reduces the purchasing power of
our incomes, squeezes profits, and distorts our capital markets. The ability of
our free economy to provide an ever higher standard of living would be weak-
ened. We must not be lulled into a belief that inflation need no longer be a
major concern of economic policy now that the rate at which prices are increas-
ing appears to be slowing.
The proposals I have made to deal with the problems of recession, inflation,
and energy recognize that the American economy is more and more a part of
the world economy. What we do affects the economies of other nations, and
what happens abroad affects our economy. Close communication, coordination
of policies, and consultations with the leaders of other nations will be essential
as we deal with our economic and financial difficulties, many of which are
common to all the industrial countries of the Western World.
We are already cooperating to ensure that the international monetary system
withstands the pressures placed on it by higher oil prices. The passage of the
Trade Reform Act of 1974 will make it possible to begin critical negotiations
this year on further liberalizing the international trading system, and we will
continue to work with other countries toward solutions to the special problems
of food and energy.
The economic problems that have emerged during the 1970's are difficult.
Some of them reflect years of misdirection. Our efforts to solve the Nation's
economic difficulties must be directed toward solutions that will not give rise
to even bigger problems later. The year 1975 must be the one in which we face
our economic problems and start the course toward real solutions.
February 4, 1975.
GERALD R. FORD
177
