February 11
[85]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
ECONOMIC AND ENERGY PROGRAMS
[17.] Q. Mr. President, what was the main thrust of objections by Gover-
nors, particularly Democratic Governors, not only to your energy policies but
to your economic policies?
THE PRESIDENT. There was very little objection to my proposal for a tax
reduction. I can't say they agreed with every detail, but they agreed that a tax
reduction was necessary as a stimulant.
They did raise some objection about some of the capping that we recom-
mended for Federal Government pay, for some of the retirement programs
where there is an escalation, as you, I am sure, know. We didn't cut back those
programs. We said they should be limited to a 5-percent increase. I suspect
that they felt that there should have been an increase permitted to the maximum.
On the other hand, they were generally fearful of the additional $17 billion
deficit over the $52 billion, because they know that a deficit of $69 billion will
have a very adverse impact on their financing efforts. So, I would say they had
mixed emotions about the economic plan, but basically they supported it.
On the energy program, there was no major criticism. We simply tried to
explain it. There were some suggestions, but I repeat what I said a moment ago:
I think they respected this program, which is an answer; whether they liked
every part of it, they preferred this program to a four-page step backward.
UNEMPLOYMENT
[18.] Q. Mr. President, I would like to follow up on Helen's earlier ques-
tion. Your Press Secretary said last week that Mr. Greenspan and, I presume,
you as well are sticking to the prediction that unemployment will peak at 8.5
percent and that that figure of 8.5 percent will probably be reached about mid-
summer. In view of the new unemployment figures which came out last week,
I am wondering whether you think those figures might be a little unrealistic
now?
THE PRESIDENT. My own personal feeling is that there may be some increases.
But I think the hump will have been reached sooner than some of the experts
are forecasting, and that the trend will start in the other direction, particularly
if the Congress moves in getting the tax reductions that I recommended Jan-
uary 15 enacted into law, and providing they do some of the other things that
are necessary to stimulate the economy.
I don't want to get in a numbers game about what the unemployment figure
might be at a certain date. I am more interested in trying to get Congress to
231
