May 31
[293]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
The world has changed, as we well know, from when the first U.S.-Spanish
friendship agreement which was signed in 1953. But the need for strong defenses
has not lessened in any way whatsoever. Spain and the United States have, in the
past, contributed together to the maintenance of a strong Western security. The
present and future call for no less effort. The United States remains totally dedi-
cated to this task.
It would be my observation that the cooperation being carried out in so many
fields between our countries demonstrates the breadth of our interests, the depth
of friendship, and the commitment of the United States and Spain to a better life
for our citizens. Spain, of course, is an important part of our Atlantic conception.
Mr. President, I raise my glass and propose a toast to this spirit of friendship.
May our cooperation be preserved and strengthened. May it assure peace for
Spaniards and Americans alike.
Mr. President.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:35 p.m. in the Salon
de Columnas at Moncloa Palace. In his opening re-
marks, he referred to Foreign Minister Pedro
Cortina Mauri.
President Arias Navarro spoke in Spanish. His
response was translated by an interpreter as follows:
Mr. President:
It constitutes for me a great honor to attend this
working lunch, which you have so kindly invited
me to.
During the tight schedule of your visit to our
country, we will have the opportunity to keep a
broad exchange of views, which will constitute the
basis of an understanding with which to cement an
official and positive cooperation of the one that
fortunately has guided so far the relations between
our two countries.
Spanish-American relationships have blended
throughout history. For Spain, it is a motive of
deep pride in her glorious past to have so sub-
stantially contributed to the origins of the great
American Nation, both during its discovery and its
independence.
In the past, European inhabitants of territories
which then became the United States were of Span-
ish origin. Also Spanish was the initial impulse and
backing received by the forefathers of America in
the heroic days of her access to the concert of free
nations.
The last 25 years of understanding and coopera-
tion between Spain and the United States has become
particularly intense. This cooperation has been, I am
sure, one of the fundamental supports for the
existence of the free world.
Spain believes that the hour has come for this
direct, loyal, and disinterested contribution on her
part to be acknowledged in specific and practical
terms by the nations that formed the Western world,
to which our country belongs, as well as for its
geographical position, its history, and its culture,
and for its past and present contributions.
Mr. President, this is not the first time that Spain
has had the honor to receive you. You have come
to Madrid before, when you represented your coun-
try in the event of the tragic death of my predecessor,
Almirante Carrero Blanco, a sorrowful occasion for
all Spaniards, especially for those of us who had the
privilege of sharing the responsibilities of govern-
ment under his command.
Your visits then and today, we believe, fit in that
long tradition of cooperation that I have already
mentioned. That is why the Spanish people, my col-
leagues in the Government, and myself think that
nobody better than you can understand the depth
and importance of existing cooperation between our
countries, as well as the need for preserving such
understanding for the future sake of values that
belong to our common civilization and that have
been so efficiently defended so far.
We congratulate ourselves, Mr. President, and we
thank you for your visit to Spain. We are certain that
you share with us the desire to continue our friend-
ship, already a tradition. You can be sure that Spain.
trusts your leadership in the Western world and
knows that our common objectives can be reached.
Allow me, Mr. President, to raise my glass for
the perseverance of that spirit of friendship and
understanding existing between Spain and the
United States, for the friendship of the American
people, as well as for yours.
Following the luncheon, the President met with
Prince Juan Carlos at Moncloa Palace.
751
