[189]
April 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
Thank you very much.
Mr. Reston [James B. Reston, New York Times].
QUESTIONS
CAMBODIA AND THE REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
[2.] Q. Mr. President, two points. There is a story on the ticker this morning
out of Geneva that the Cambodian Government has asked for a cease-fire and
that this information has been passed to Prince Sihanouk in Peking. Could
you tell us anything about that, sir?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Reston, I just received a note from one of my staff
members, Ron Nessen, indicating that we had gotten the information after
I had left the White House to the effect that the Cambodian Government has
communicated with Sihanouk indicating that the Cambodian Government
will work with the Khmer Rouge to try and negotiate a settlement.
It is my recollection, from a quick look at that information that was given
to me at the luncheon table, that Prince Sihanouk is in no position to really
achieve or accomplish the results that we all want, namely, a negotiated
settlement in that unfortunate situation.
I can only say from our point of view we will help in any way we can
to further negotiations to end that conflict.
Q. On that same point, could I ask you whether you have been in touch
with the North Vietnamese about a cease-fire in South Vietnam or with any
other governments to try to bring that about?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, over a period of time, we have communicated with
all of the signatories of the Paris accords, which were signed in January of
1973. The efforts that we have made are broad and comprehensive. And when I
say we have indicated our feelings to all signatories, of course, that includes the
North Vietnamese.
Mr. Funk [R. D. Funk, Outlook, Santa Monica, Calif.].
Q. Mr. President, is the United States in direct contact now, in a situation
of negotiation, with the North Vietnamese for a cease-fire around Saigon?
THE PRESIDENT. We are not in direct negotiations in that regard.
Q. Thank you.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
[3.] Q. Mr. President, when a delegation of the American Society of News-
paper Editors was in China the last time around, there was considerable
496
