[36]
January 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. I think any President or any candidate for the Presidency is
affected by the status of the economy. In my judgment, the program I have
submitted both to answer the energy problem and to meet the difficulties we
are having in the economy today will be reflected in a definite improvement in
our economy in the months ahead.
The plan for energy, if approved by the Congress, will get us on the road to
meet our difficulties in the field of energy. It will make us less vulnerable to
outside or foreign sources.
I am convinced both programs are sound. We may be at a low point now, but
I am convinced that the months ahead will prove that we were right and that
the political prospects, if they are affected by that, will likewise be improved.
Yes, Mr. Sperling [Godfrey Sperling, Jr., Christian Science Monitor].
VIETNAM CONFLICT
[6.] Q. Mr. President, are there circumstances in which the U.S. might
actively reenter the Vietnam war?
THE PRESIDENT. I cannot foresee any at the moment.
Q. Are you ruling out the possibility of bombing, U.S. bombing over there,
or naval action?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think it is appropriate for me to forecast any specific
actions that might be taken. I would simply say that any military actions, if
taken, would be only taken following the actions under our constitutional and
legal procedures.
ENERGY PROGRAM
[7.] Q. Mr. President, some critics of your energy and tax proposals say that
it looks like a "made in Detroit" plan and that it is more an effort to rescue or
revive the auto industry in that it does not attack the horsepower and weight of
automobiles and the gas-guzzling machines. I would like to ask you whether you
considered these options and, if so, why you rejected them.
THE PRESIDENT. I can assure you, Mr. Lisagor [Peter Lisagor, Chicago Daily
News], we considered every option, including the options that some are talking
about—gas rationing, closing gas stations on Sunday, and things of that nature—
but we did not think any of those proposals were the right solution.
Let me just take one that you mentioned—a tax on new automobiles, I assume,
that had a high horsepower. Well, I really do not think that is any solution,
because automobiles in that category are not the ones that are bought by most
people. So, the impact really would be minimal.
64
