February 25
[106]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
must hand this magnificent experiment in self-government on to future gen-
erations, free and strong.
As we prepare for our Bicentennial, we must join together to make sure that
America's past is truly the prolog to a greater future. We must not fail. We will
succeed.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:35 a.m. in the
International Ballroom at the Washington Hilton
Hotel. He was introduced by John W. Warner,
106
Administrator of the American Revolution Bicen-
tennial Administration.
Remarks at the Women's Forum on National Security.
February 25, 1975
Mrs. Kubby, ladies and gentlemen:
It is a great privilege and honor for me to be here and to participate in the
Women's Forum on National Security, and I thank you very much for the
opportunity.
As I look around the room on this occasion, it brings back to me the memories
of previous occasions. So, I know from the very outset that we share the same
vision for America, a free, rising democracy, and we also share the awareness
that only a strong America can stay free.
I am greatly impressed with the theme of your gathering-"Peace, a com-
mon purpose." This is the link that brings us together on this occasion and
will be a link as we move forward to keep America strong and prepared to
keep the peace.
Let me express from the bottom of my heart my thanks for your past efforts
to bolster our national security. As I said earlier, I recall very vividly meeting
with your group on previous occasions. You and the 22 million women in all
of our 50 States, the Philippines, Puerto Rico, Panama—which all of you
represent―are one of the most potent and effective grassroots lobbies we have
for a peaceful and secure America, and I congratulate you for being here and
for your never-ending efforts in this very high purpose.
I know from my experience of 25 years in the Congress you do a great job.
I can say without any hesitation or qualification you have my blessing and
strong support, and more importantly, you have my gratitude.
You have a great mission, and you have performed it well, and the American
people are deeply indebted to you.
277
