[84]
February 11
Public Papers of the Presidents
84
Address Before a Joint Session of the Kansas State Legislature.
February 11, 1975
Mr. Speaker, President of the Senate Rogers, Governor Bennett, Senator Pear-
son, Judge Fatzer, distinguished members of the State legislature:
It is a very high honor and a very great personal privilege to have the oppor-
tunity of joining you here this morning.
And may I thank all of you as I thanked the many thousands out in front.
It is great to be among people who are friendly, who look forward. It just is a
great thrill, and I thank you and I thank them.
Naturally, I am proud to be here in the great State of Kansas, where people
seem to have a very special regard, not only for the rights of citizenship but the
responsibilities as well. I understand that 68 percent of the Kansas electorate
went to the polls in November, as against a national average of slightly under
40 percent. And so, let me take this occasion to salute the concerned citizens of
your great State of Kansas. It is a great privilege and a very high honor for me
to be in a State where voting isn't considered a spectator sport.
Ever since I was a youngster, I have had a very special feeling for Kansas,
because Kansas is where Dorothy lived before she went to visit the wonderful
land of Oz, where all kinds of strange, whimsical, and unexpected things hap-
pened. But I am beginning to think that if strange, whimsical, and unexpected
things were what Dorothy was really interested in, she wouldn't have gone to
Oz. She would have gone to Washington, D.C. [Laughter]
Thank you very much for the opportunity of saying a few words before this
joint session of the Kansas State Legislature. I would like to thank my very good
friend, Governor Bob Bennett, my former colleagues in the Congress, Senators
Jim Pearson and Bob Dole, my other associates of former days in the House of
Representatives, for urging me to attend this occasion. Their advice has helped
me to open up a new phase of my effort to mobilize our country to meet the
economic and energy challenges that are on our doorstep.
In less than an hour, I will be meeting and talking with a gathering of Mid-
western Governors on these two very vital subjects. Later this afternoon, I will
have the privilege of meeting with my friends of the press for a televised news
conference.
But this event, here in your beautiful and historic State Capitol, brings another
216
