[318]
June 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
318
Remarks at a Briefing for Members of the National Industrial
Council. June 10, 1975
LET ME thank you all for coming, and let me most warmly welcome you to the
White House.
I do like to meet with groups such as this, make a few comments, and then
chat with you informally. So, when we are through, I would like to invite you
all into the State Dining Room for a little reception and maybe some refresh-
ments.
It is nice to meet with the National Industrial conference. I come from a family
that wasn't a very big industrial organization, but it was an organization that
participated in our industrial society. My father started a small paint factory
back in 1929. [Laughter] He was lucky to survive, but he did because he seemed
to have that knack of working hard and convincing people that he had a good
product. And he apparently was a sufficiently good salesman to make enough
to keep the business going, and it never got very big, but it was a big part of the
Ford family background.
I used to go over there and clean cans and fill cans and get pretty dirty during
the process, but I learned a few things that did pay off later as a part of my
education in growing up. But at least that was my first exposure to our industrial
society, and it was significant to me. And it was a darn good education, as far as
I am concerned.
What I would like to say this afternoon involves the three major issues that I
think are on the country's agenda in 1975. Those three are in the domestic area:
energy, the economy, and the budget.
Jim Lynn probably just filled you in on the details of the budget, but let
me add one or two observations, if I might. I never anticipated I would ever
be in a position of endorsing a deficit of some $60 billion. It was totally con-
trary to my philosophy of fiscal or financial affairs as far as the Federal Gov-
ernment was concerned.
But when we took a look at all the facts and the figures, the existing laws, the
status of the economy, we came to the conclusion that there was no alternative
for the submission of the budget in January of this year with anything other
than a deficit of $52 billion, which has subsequently expanded to a figure of
approximately $60 billion. We are going to hold the line. And as of today, I
800
