January 23
[45]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
THE MIDDLE EAST
[2.] MR. CHANCELLOR. Tom, may I just follow up on that?
MR. BROKAW. You are doing just fine, John.
MR. CHANCELLOR. The other day at your press conference, you were asked
about Dr. Kissinger's quote on the possibility of military intervention. And
something surprised me, sir. You have been in politics for a long time, and you
are as expert a question-ducker as anybody in that trade. Why didn't you duck
that question? Why didn't you just say, “Well, that's hypothetical”? You did
go into some detail on it.
THE PRESIDENT. I did. I, in part, reiterated what I had said, I think, at a pre-
vious news conference. I wanted it made as clear as I possibly could that this
country, in case of economic strangulation—and the key word is "strangula-
tion"--we had to be prepared, without specifying what we might do, to take the
necessary action for our self-preservation.
When you are being strangled, it is a question of either dying or living. And
when you use the word "strangulation" in relationship to the existence of the
United States or its non-existence, I think the public has to have a reassurance,
our people, that we are not going to permit America to be strangled to death.
And so I, in my willingness to be as frank-but with moderation—I thought I
ought to say what I said then. And I have amplified it, I hope, clarified it here.
MR. CHANCELLOR. The New Republic this week has a story saying that there
are three American divisions being sent to the Middle East, or being prepared
for the Middle East. We called the Pentagon and we got a confirmation on that;
that one is airmobile, one is airborne, and one is armored. And it is a little un-
clear as to whether this is a contingency plan, because we don't know where we
would put the divisions in the Middle East. Could you shed any light on that?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think I ought to talk about any particular military
contingency plans, John. I think what I said concerning strangulation and
Dr. Kissinger's comment is about as far as I ought to go.
MR. CHANCELLOR. Then we have reached a point where another question
would be unproductive on that?
THE PRESIDENT. I think you are right.
MR. BROKAW. Mr. President, you said the other day that-speaking of that
general area—you think there is a serious danger of war in the Middle East;
earlier this year, you were quoted as saying something over 70 percent. Has it
gone up recently?
97
