March 20
[147]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
of joint scientific research between institutions and individual scientists of the
two countries.
They also reaffirmed their intention to encourage the further expansion of
cultural cooperation, reiterating their expectation that the participation of the
Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia in the forthcoming bicentennial of the
United States of America will serve to deepen understanding between the
peoples of the two countries. They also affirmed the importance to the develop-
ment of the United States of America of American citizens of Yugoslav extrac-
tion who constitute an important link of friendship and communication
between the peoples of the two countries.
The two sides underscored once again the continuing validity of the prin-
ciples set forth in the Joint Statement of October 30, 1971, which constitutes a
solid basis for stable, friendly relations and a broad spectrum of mutually benefi-
cial cooperation between the two countries.
147
Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual International
Economic Report of the President. March 20, 1975
To the Congress of the United States:
America must adjust to turbulent global economic events. The world has
moved from a period of slow economic growth in 1971 through a two-year
expansionary boom to a sudden and pervasive recession. Recent events have
caused the United States, as well as other countries, to reappraise international
economic policies.
This, the third annual International Economic Report, describes the very
difficult situation confronting us. It also reflects the progress made toward
achieving our goal of an open world economy to serve the interdependent needs
of all countries.
In 1974, most of the world's economies were beset by problems flowing from
the unprecedented combination of recession and inflation. Additional pressures,
including precipitous increases in energy costs and disappointing food harvests
further strained the world economy, particularly in the areas of trade and
monetary flows and adjustments. Moreover, these factors contributed to the
trend towards increasing economic nationalism which could frustrate our desire
for an open world economy.
In recent years, many governments have elected more direct involvement in
385
