[19]
January 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
Moreover, I am writing to those department and agency heads who are respon-
sible for the overall intelligence activities of the United States as related to our
national security and to the conduct of our foreign policy, for the purpose of
emphasizing that they are at all times to conduct their activities within the scope
of their respective statutory authorities.
NOTE: On the same day, the President signed
Executive Order 11828 establishing a Commission
on CIA Activities Within the United States.
On January 5, 1975, the White House released
an announcement of the President's appointment
of the Chairman and members of the Commission.
They were: Vice President Nelson A. Rockefeller,
Chairman; John T. Connor; C. Douglas Dillon;
Erwin N. Griswold; Ronald Reagan; Lyman L.
Lemnitzer; Edgar F. Shannon; and Joseph Lane
Kirkland.
20
Memorandum Establishing a Domestic Council Committee
on Illegal Aliens. January 6, 1975
Memorandum for the Domestic Council: Secretary of State, Secretary of the
Treasury, Attorney General, Secretary of the Interior, Secretary of Agricul-
ture, Secretary of Commerce, Secretary of Labor, Secretary of Health, Edu-
cation, and Welfare, Secretary of Housing and Urban Development,
Secretary of Transportation, Assistant to the President Baroody, Director,
Office of Management and Budget, Chairman, Council of Economic
Advisers, Chairman, Council on Environmental Quality, Administrator of
the Environmental Protection Agency, Director, ACTION
Subject: Domestic Council Committee on Illegal Aliens
I am today establishing a new Domestic Council Committee on Illegal Aliens.
This Committee will develop, coordinate and present to me policy issues that
cut across agency lines to provide better programs for dealing with this National
problem. The Attorney General will serve as the Chairman of this Committee.
The membership of the Committee will consist of the Secretary of State, Secre-
tary of the Treasury, Secretary of Agriculture, Secretary of Commerce, Secre-
tary of Labor, Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare, Assistant to the
President Baroody, and the Director of the Office of Management and Budget.
GERALD R. FORD
20
