[207]
April 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
Fortunately, however, there is also a positive side to all of this. Today's U.S.
Navy has some tremendous assets. Our aircraft carriers and their air groups are
very potent weapons systems. These magnificent forces contribute immeasur-
ably to making our overall strike forces the very best in the world.
Our nuclear-powered submarines and nuclear-powered surface ships are the
finest in the world. We have more of them than any other power. The United
States Marine Corps is unrivaled as a combat force. And the spirit and the
morale of the Marines are as high as they have ever been.
In fact, the entire Navy-Marine Corps team has these very important, very
vital ingredients: combat-proven strength, dynamic leadership, and dedicated
professionalism. And we thank them all for these important assets that they
contribute to our national security.
I have full confidence in the new professionals of our Navy and Marine
Corps. But the Navy and the Marine Corps today are the results of careful
planning of the days in the past. If both are to maintain the same high stand-
ards for the days ahead, we must be laying the groundwork right now. And
we must take into account some dramatic changes in the global balance of
power.
At the outset of World War II, America had a 3,000-mile ocean barrier on
the east coast and a 10,000-mile ocean barrier on the west coast. A mighty British
Fleet acted as a friendly buffer. And the United States had a 2-year lead time
to gear up our great military production capabilities between the outbreak of
war in Europe and our own entry at Pearl Harbor.
Today, we face a very different situation. For example, Soviet naval units
now freely roam the world seas, circumnavigating the State of Hawaii in the
Pacific, and operating in the Gulf of Mexico.
Let me give you a very graphic example, if I might, something that has
happened within the past few days. Elements from all four fleets of the Soviet
Navy have just completed global maneuvers. More than 200 Soviet ships de-
ployed in all of the oceans of the world participated in this exercise. More than
50 Soviet ships were deployed in the Atlantic, extending their maneuvers to
the Norwegian Sea and southwest of the British Isles. Soviet reconnaissance air-
craft operating from Cuba and Guinea, conducted ocean surveillance over wide
areas of the Atlantic. The Soviet Navy was also active in the Mediterranean, the
Pacific, and the Indian Ocean.
There is no doubt about it, the Soviet Union understands the importance of
seapower. The Russians built up their Navy while we permitted ours to shrink,
and they know how to show their flag.
566
