[204]
April 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
to appropriate the military aid requested-the previous administration asked for
$1,400 million for this fiscal year; Congress authorized $1 billion; Congress
appropriated $700 million; and the failure to make the commitment for this
fiscal year of something close to what was asked for certainly raised doubts
in the mind of President Thieu and his military that we would be supplying
sufficient military hardware for them to adequately defend their various posi-
tions in South Vietnam.
Now, the lack of support certainly had an impact on the decision that Pres-
ident Thieu made to withdraw precipitously. I don't think he would have
withdrawn if the support had been there. It wasn't there, so he decided to
withdraw.
Unfortunately, the withdrawal was hastily done, inadequately prepared, and
consequently was a chaotic withdrawal of the forces from Military Regions I,
II, and III.
Now, how you place the blame, what percentage our failure to supply the
arms, what percentage related to a hastily and inadequately prepared with-
drawal the experts, after they study the records, probably can give you a better
assessment. But the initial kickoff came for the withdrawal from the failure
of our Government to adequately support the military request for help.
MR. SCHIEFFER. Mr. President, what I don't understand is, if they are saying
we have got to leave because the United States is not going to give us some
more equipment, why did they leave all the equipment up there that they had?
Why did they abandon so much of that equipment?
The President. As I was saying, the withdrawal was very poorly planned
and hastily determined. I am not an Army man. I was in the Navy. But I have
talked to a good many Army and Marine Corps experts, and they tell me that
a withdrawal, military withdrawal is the most difficult maneuver to execute,
and this decision by President Thieu was hastily done without adequate
preparation, and it in effect became a rout.
When you are in a panicky state of mind, inevitably you are going to leave
a lot of military hardware. It is tragic. There is no excuse for that kind of a
military operation, but even though that happened, if they had been given the
military aid that General Weyand recommended during the last month, I am
convinced that, with that additional military hardware on time, there could
have been a stabilization of the situation which, in my judgment, would have
led more quickly to a cease-fire.
MR. CRONKITE. Mr. President, you have said that you were not advised of
this withdrawal of President Thieu's. Are you certain, however, that none of the
544
