[64]
February 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
world, each of these objectives serves our own national interest even as it helps
others.
NATIONAL SECURITY.-The Vladivostok understanding, which I reached with
General Secretary Brezhnev of the Soviet Union, represents a major step on the
long and arduous road to the control and eventual reduction of nuclear arms.
For the first time, we have reached an understanding on specific and equal
limitations on strategic nuclear weapons. Once we have concluded an agreement
based on these understandings, we will be prepared to take the next step-to
seek further reductions, as we have already done in the case of antiballistic
missile launchers.
The progress we have already made along the road to eventual strategic arms
reductions has been possible only because we have remained strong. If we are
to make further progress, we must act to preserve our strategic strength. My
defense proposals provide for necessary force improvements and for the develop-
ment of strategic alternatives necessary to maintain, within the limits of the
Vladivostok agreement, a credible strategic deterrent.
More attention must now be given to maintaining an adequate balance in
general purpose forces. In this area we share the burden of defense with our
allies. The United States has entered into negotiations between members of
NATO and of the Warsaw Pact on mutual and balanced force reductions. If
those negotiations are successful, some U.S. forces stationed in Europe could
safely be withdrawn. For the time being, however, the United States and its
allies must maintain present manpower levels and continue to strengthen con-
ventional combat capabilities.
In an effort to increase efficiency and achieve greater combat capability with
existing manpower levels, the Army has undertaken to provide 16 active combat
divisions by June of 1976 with approximately the same total number of Army
personnel as was authorized for 13 divisions in June of 1974. This 16-division
combat force will require additional equipment, which is provided for in my
budget recommendations.
Because the welfare and survival of the United States and its allies depend
upon the flow of ocean-going trade and supplies, strong naval forces are required.
In recent years, the number of Navy ships has decreased, primarily as a result
of the retirement of many aging ships built during World War II. The savings
from this action have been used to strengthen the combat capabilities of the
remaining force. This budget provides for a vigorous program of new ship
construction and modernization necessary to maintain the naval balance in the
future.
156
