April 21
[204]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
MR. SEVAREID. Mr. President, can you foresee any possible circumstances in
which you would feel it right to send American Armed Forces into the Mideast
on land or in the air? In other words, military intervention?
THE PRESIDENT. I can't foresee any, Eric, but—I see no reason to do so. So, I
think the answer is pretty categorically no.
MR. SEVAREID. What about a wholly different level? If there were agreement
for a Russian and American peace patrol and that the alternative to that was
another Mideast war, would you go that far ?
The President. Well, you put it on about the most extreme alternatives.
We want peace in the Middle East, and I think the Soviet Union does, too.
I would hope that there wouldn't be a need for either the United States or
the Soviet Union having any peacekeeping responsibilities with their own forces
in the Middle East.
MR. SCHIEFFER. Mr. President, does the reassessment now going on of Middle
East policy also include a reassessment of the U.S. position toward the
Palestinians?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, if you take the path of an overall settlement and going
to Geneva, I think you have to have an analysis of what is going to happen
there, because the Palestinians are going to demand recognition. But I don't
mean to infer that we have made any decision. But the Palestinians have to be
examined as a part of the overall Middle East situation.
I am not making any commitment one way or another, but it has to be part of
the problem that we are analyzing.
MR. SCHIEFFER. Well, let me ask you this just as a followup. Could the Pales-
tinians be included if they refused to deal with the Israelis?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't see how, because the Israelis, in the first place, don't
recognize the Palestinians as a proper party and the PLO doesn't recognize the
existence of Israel. So, I think that is an impasse right there, and it will be
one of the most difficult things that will have to be worked out if it is worked
out at Geneva.
MR. Schieffer. Do you have any feel for when there will be a date for the
Geneva Conference reconvening?
THE PRESIDENT. I have seen a lot of speculation early this summer, but no set
time has been determined.
MR. CRONKITE. Mr. President, the Israeli Foreign Minister Allon is in Wash-
ington now, and there are reports out of Jersalem today that he is going to
suggest a summit meeting between you and President [Prime Minister] Rabin.
Do you expect to have such a meeting?
553
