July 14
[403]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
403
Remarks at the Swearing In of Philip C. Jackson, Jr.,
as a Member of the Board of Governors of the Federal
Reserve System. July 14, 1975
Thank you very, very much, Arthur. Governor-designate and Mrs. Jackson, two
of my old friends from the House of Representatives, John Buchanan and Tom
Bevill, other distinguished members of the Administration, members of the
staff of the Federal Reserve Board, ladies and gentlemen:
I am not going to try and compete with Arthur's humor. I can always tell
when he has got some sly remark, when he turns and looks at you with that
sort of professorial look that you know not what is coming next.
But it is a great privilege and pleasure for me to be here and participate in
the swearing in of one of the newest members of the Federal Reserve Board. I
think it is a very unique part of the history of the Board that for the first time
in a quarter of a century, we are having as a member of the Board a person
who has spent all or most of his professional business life in the mortgage bank-
ing field.
All of you who work here in this great establishment know very, very well the
great importance between the homebuilding industry and the activities of this
organization. And I am confident that Mr. Jackson will make a significant
contribution to the deliberations of the Board's decisionmaking process.
I think it is highly important for all of us to emphasize now-as it has been
in the past and as, I trust, it will be in the future-that the Federal Reserve
Board is an independent institution, a very vital, integral part of our total gov-
ernmental setup, but one that occupies a very unique part in the many workings
of the Federal Government.
The Federal Reserve Board has to be independent of the President, the
Congress.
The Federal Reserve Board, as I believe it should perform its role, is to pro-
tect the interests of 214 million people, to take the broadest possible look at the
many intricate problems that we face in our economy not only at home but as
well abroad.
On the other hand, I think there has to be communication between the Chair-
man of the Board and the Congress and the White House, but with that high
degree of integrity representing the role and responsibility of the Federal
Reserve Board.
991
