[82]
February 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
of 18 million American homes, the construction of millions of new automobiles,
trucks, and buses that will use much less fuel, and finally, the drilling of many
thousands of new oil and gas wells.
With the money we spend in one month on imported oil, I am told that we
could drill the equivalent of 18,000 onshore wells or about 3,000 offshore wells.
We are all in this together. Each of us has a contract with this country. Each
of us must make good on the key clause in that agreement which deals with
responsibility. As you well know, there is a price for everything, whether it be
independence from tyranny or freedom from dependence. It is important that
we have this freedom from dependence on others for the resources that we
need.
Idealism and realism do not contradict one another. The American people
have always been idealists. It is now time to show ourselves and the world that
we are also realists.
In another time of crisis, during World War II, the oil and gas industry
increased its production by 20 percent with an investment of nearly $5 billion.
This industry expenditure was the equivalent of two and a half times the cost
of the Manhattan Project that developed the atomic bomb. A far greater com-
mitment is needed today, and the Government cannot begin to do it alone.
One of the fundamental principles of democracy is that decision, direction,
and deed do not come down from rules and regulations and bureaucratic paper-
work, but up from the millions of its citizens.
I ask and literally pray that you have courage and confidence and come with
me to face the challenges of America's third century. I call on you for a rebirth
of that great American spirit. It is really a very noble call. It is the call, it is the
challenge for solutions now to the problems of the future.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:04 p.m. in the
Emerald Room at the Shamrock Hilton Hotel. In his
opening remarks, he referred to Willard E. Wal-
bridge, senior vice president of the Capital Cities
Broadcasting Corporation in Houston.
214
