April 3
[167]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
are tightening their belts to get through the worst recession of recent times,
caused in large part by decades of deficits and ever-growing governmental pro-
grams, the Congress should not ask them to suffer consequences of more of the
same fiscal folly.
I would like the Congress to fix an absolute ceiling on Federal spending for
the coming year, the ceiling where I draw the line. To do this effectively and
with meaning, the Congress must go one step further.
Here is my suggestion: You have got three fine Members of Congress here. Put
the already enacted procedures of the Congressional budget and impound-
ment act of 1974 into effect a whole year ahead of schedule, starting this July 1.
Under the current circumstances, when the legislation was passed last year,
it was expected that it would not go into effect until fiscal year 1977, and that
during this interval between last year and a year and one-half from now, there
would be sort of a practice run.
I think the urgency of Congressional action to establish a ceiling and to orient
priorities requires that Congress do it this year. We don't need a practice session;
we need full participation in the ball game, and I hope and trust that Congress
will do that. That will be the best evidence that I know of their total dedication
to handling your tax money or the Government's borrowing in a responsible
way.
Now, in the face of a huge deficit that could reach $100 billion if my budget is
overridden, it is hard for me to see how the Congress can refuse to move up the
implementation date of the budget and impoundment act of 1974. Excessive
Federal spending for years has fueled the fires of inflation and imposed the
unfairest tax of all on the American people, robbing retired people of their pen-
sions, the elderly of their social security, the hard-working majority of their
paychecks' full value in the supermarket.
Runaway inflation can ruin the production growth and essential strength of
the free enterprise system and cripple our entire American economy. That is
why my economic policy recommendations contain two elements, each one of
them essential to its success: one, a quick, one-time tax cut to stimulate buying
power and new development by business in job-producing expansion; the other,
spending cuts and a 1-year moratorium on new spending by the Government,
except for energy and emergency needs. Federal tax cuts alone will not work
without simultaneous Federal spending restraints.
I am deeply concerned, quite frankly, that some elements of the Congress will
try to pay for additional spending programs by dangerously stripping billions
427
