[222]
April 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
occasion, your contribution to a solution has been all to the good from the point
of view of all parties concerned. We are deeply grateful now as well as in the
past for this contribution.
We had a very, I think, constructive meeting this morning, and I know you
are going to be meeting with the Secretary of State tomorrow. Your personal
contribution to this very difficult problem that the world faces in the Middle
East is a very significant one.
We have had some disappointments with the efforts that the Secretary of
State and that I made in the Middle East. But I for one do not believe that we
can tolerate stagnation or stalemate, and we do not intend to do so.
The precise key, the precise answer is still being analyzed here in our country
and, I am sure, in other parts of the world. But momentum for progress has to
be continued. And one of the benefits of my meeting with you this morning
was that we discussed the need and necessity not to look back and condemn one
party or another or to have any adverse comments about one party or another.
The important point is that we have to look forward. We have to be op-
timistic about what is good in the Middle East, but what, more importantly, is
good for the world as a whole.
The situation in the Middle East is totally related to the improvement of
world conditions on a global basis. We are thankful and very appreciative of
your continuous statesmanship. It has been evident to everybody over a long
period of time, but I have personally had the opportunity to observe it, and I
thank you.
We are most grateful, and in the months ahead we will be very mindful of
your observations, your recommendations, as we try to find an answer to the
problems not only in the Middle East but elsewhere.
So, it is my great honor and privilege, Your Majesty, to offer a toast to you
for all that you have done and all that you will do for the benefit of all of the
people in the Middle East and the people in the world.
Your Majesty.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:16 p.m. in the
State Dining Room at the White House. King
Hussein responded as follows:
Mr. President:
It is indeed an honor and a very great pleasure
for me, sir, to have had this opportunity to meet
with you again, sir, and to be amongst friends.
We have indeed over the years been ever proud
of the fact that those years that passed brought us
closer together in many fields and in many areas.
We are proud of the friendship that has always
existed between our two countries, the friendship
that now we feel exists between the Arab nation
and the United States, its government and its people.
We have a commonality of interests. On the one
hand, we share the same principles, uphold the
same ideals, have the same hopes and aspirations
for a better world, for a world where people can
live in peace and in dignity and divert their energies
and resources to further build for the generations to
come.
Our area is a troubled area, and trouble in
606
