[396]
July 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
lems. The problems, however, are complicated by legislation or nonlegislation,
by the fact that we haven't in the past focused quickly enough on some of the
problems that we now have on our doorstep.
But this Government-the executive, the legislative, and the judicial branch—
can respond to meet those problems. And the American people do have faith.
And I think their faith will be justified as we make headway in our economic
problems, energy problems, and the like.
I concede there may be some disappointment, but the American people have
the opportunity under our system, fortunately, to make changes—if they are
not happy—in a legitimate and proper way.
REGULATORY REFORM
[17.] Q. Well, on the other side of that, perhaps, how are you doing on
deregulating, on getting rid of this maze of redtape?
THE PRESIDENT. I will make two points. One, I have met with 24 Members
of the Congress, House and Senate, Democrats and Republicans, working to get
the various commissions and other regulators to reduce regulation, to give the
American people a chance themselves to solve these problems.
Secondly, last week, I met with the Chairmen and the respective members of
every one of the regulatory commissions, and we pointed out very specifically
that they had an obligation to reduce the burdens they have placed on people
and the economy so that our free economy can do more for itself than they can
with their regulations.
I think we will make some headway. If we don't, we will change some of the
commissions.
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
[18.] Q. Mr. President, there have been reports that CIA agents have been
working clandestinely in the White House and perhaps in some other Govern-
ment departments or agencies. Is this true?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, as far as I know personally, there are no people pres-
ently employed in the White House who have a relationship with the CIA of
which I am personally unaware.
Q. Do you know whether the report—I think the reports concerned admin-
istrations before yours, the Nixon administration. Do you know whether there
were CIA agents working clandestinely in the White House at that time?
THE PRESIDENT. That matter is being analyzed. As you indicated, the allega-
tions concern not my Administration, but the previous administration. I can
976
