[204]
April 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
be, their involvement would make it virtually impossible—again, without a
sizable U.S. military commitment. That is one reason why we want a cease-
fire. That is why we want the military operation stopped so that we can cer-
tainly get all the Americans out without any trouble and, hopefully, those
South Vietnamese that we feel a special obligation to.
But at the moment, it does not appear that that is possible. We intend to keep
working on it because we feel it is the humane and the proper thing to do.
MR. SCHIEFFER. What if it is not possible? Then what do you do? Do you ask
the Congress to let you send those troops in there, American troops to protect
the withdrawal? Do you send them in without Congressional approval? What
do you do next?
THE PRESIDENT. AS you know, I have asked the Congress to clarify my au-
thority as President to send American troops in to bring about the evacuation of
friendly South Vietnamese or South Vietnamese that we have an obligation to,
or at least I think we do.
There is no problem in sending U.S. military personnel in to South Vietnam
to evacuate Americans. That is permitted under the War Powers Act, providing
we give adequate prenotification to the Congress.
That is what we did in the case of Phnom Penh in our personnel there. But if
we are going to have a sizable evacuation of South Vietnamese, I would think
the Congress ought to clarify the law and give me specific authority. Whether
they will or not, I can't tell you at this point.
MR. SCHIEFFER. Now, if you do send them in and if Congress gives you the
authority, they will have to have air power. It will have to be a sizable commit-
ment. They will almost have to have just an open-ended authority in order to
protect themselves. That is what you are asking for, isn't it?
THE PRESIDENT. Unless the North Vietnamese and the South Vietnamese
have a cease-fire, and then the evacuation of those South Vietnamese could be
done very easily.
Now, if there is a military conflict still going on, or if either one side or the
other shows displeasure about this, and if we decided to do it—there are a
number of "ifs" in that-yes, there would have to be some fairly sizable U.S., on
a short-term, very precise, military involvement, not on a broad scale, of course.
MR. CRONKITE. Mr. President, when did you last talk to President Thieu?
THE PRESIDENT. I have not personally talked to President Thieu since I be-
came President. I have had a number of exchanges of correspondence with him,
but the last time I talked to him was when he was in the United States and I was
minority leader, and that was roughly 2 years ago, as I recollect.
542
