[382]
July 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
way program, and then we will have the safety and beautification programs as a
result.
This program tends to give to the States greater flexibility in the utilization of
the funds for the completion of the interstate system and the development of a
sound highway program.
We have made great strides in our highway construction. It has tied cities
together, it has tied the Nation together, but there are some essential links that
need completion in the interstate system. They will be completed under this
program, and at the same time, we accelerate, through the flexibility, the develop-
ment of highway programs in each of the various States.
So, it is a pleasure and a privilege for me to sign this message that will provide
roughly $3,250 million a year for the interstate system, around $1,050 million
for the rural program, $800 million a year for the urban program, $400 million
a year for the safety program, and $65 million a year for the beautification
program.
This, I believe, is a major step forward in the extension and completion of our
various highway programs.
So, I thank Governor Ray and his associates for coming and participating in
this ceremony. With their help, I am at least confident that we can convince the
Congress to take this very significant and forward step.
As soon as I finish this, Bob, if you want to add a word on behalf of the
Governors, I will appreciate it.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:34 a.m. in the Rose
Garden at the White House at a ceremony attended
by Governors Calvin L. Rampton of Utah, Michael
O'Callaghan of Nevada, Robert F. Bennett of Kansas,
Arch A. Moore, Jr., of West Virginia, and Robert
D. Ray of Iowa, chairman of the National Gov-
ernors' Conference.
Governor Ray's response to the President's re-
marks is printed in the Weekly Compilation of
Presidential Documents (vol. 11, p. 717).
383
Special Message to the Congress Proposing Federal-Aid
Highway Legislation. July 7, 1975
To the Congress of the United States:
Twenty years ago, President Eisenhower sent to the Congress a landmark
report on our Nation's highways. That report, and the legislation it inspired,
launched the Nation on one of the most ambitious public works programs in
history-construction of the 42,500-mile Interstate Highway System.
Today, eighty-five percent of the Interstate system is open to traffic, and the
936
