[392]
July 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
This experiment in one or more agencies, born of more recent vintage, I
think, can produce substantial results. And I would strongly urge every com-
mission to undertake an analysis to see if you can't do something in this area.
It is my judgment that in every case you have to ask yourself individually
as commissioners and as a commission: Is regulation better in each case than
an unregulated market?
Finally, I will continue to meet with the 24 designated Members of the House
and Senate, both Democratic as well as Republican, to review with them the
progress in the areas where we think action can be taken, must be taken. And
I am asking the members of my Administration to work closely with each of
you and each of your commissions, as well as to respond for the executive
branch in their areas of jurisdiction.
It is my judgment that with the cooperation of the Congress—and I am sure
it will be there with the cooperation of each of you and your respective agen-
cies, and with the full participation of the executive branch, we can make some
very substantial headway.
And we will all be applauded, in my judgment, by the American people,
and we will have a healthier and a far more efficient economy.
I thank you very, very much.
393
Remarks at a Briefing for Local Officials on General Revenue
Sharing. July 10, 1975
Mr. Vice President, members of the Cabinet, distinguished guests, ladies and
gentlemen:
It is wonderful to have you here in the White House. As I look around the
room, I see many, many mayors that have been so kind and hospitable and
thoughtful to me in my various travels, and I thank you for it.
It is nice to have an opportunity to reciprocate not only with this meeting
here this afternoon, but when you conclude your opportunities with the Cabinet
and other members, I am looking forward to joining you for some refresh-
ments in the State Dining Room. So, after you have gone through your labors,
why, we will see you a little later this afternoon.
I was trying to look at some notes that I put together yesterday, and I was
going to say something yesterday based on what I read about what you had
954
