[171]
April 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
It now looks as if the Congress might undertake an entire series of new
spending initiatives despite my request for a moratorium. A possible deficit
of $100 billion in a 12-month period of time-that would be a disaster.
Such a huge deficit is alarming because of the impact it would have on the
money market. When the economy is weak and private credit demands are
relatively low, the Administration's projected deficit could be financed with-
out encouraging inflation. But when the economy turns up-and I think we
are seeing some encouraging signs—and when it turns up, as we more specifi-
cally anticipate in the second half of the year, any larger deficit will consume
money available for the private sector, drive up interest rates, and unfortunately
regenerate more inflation.
The more Government has to borrow to finance a Federal deficit, the less
money is available for individuals and for businesses. For example, a recent
report in the Wall Street Journal describes the current difficulties of corpora-
tions in offering their bonds for expansion. Some companies have already been
forced to delay planned offerings because of Government borrowing. A larger
deficit will seriously aggravate this situation. Without these bonds, businesses
will have to reduce anticipated capital expenditures. This, in turn, threatens
to delay our economic recovery.
When government competes directly with business and individuals for
needed funds, the interest rates go back up. When interest rates are high, it
becomes difficult for individuals to borrow money to buy new homes, to buy
new cars or other consumer items. The fall-off in the pace of consumer spend-
ing then forces industries to cut back production. When production is cut
back, jobs are cut back.
When interest rates rise, there is a temptation to call for the Federal Reserve
to provide even more money and more credit to satisfy the demands. As we
have seen in the past when this is done, the longer term result is inevitably more
inflation and even higher interest rates.
Overstimulation can negate the entire purpose of the tax cut which is to get
the economy producing and the workingman back on the job.
The intrusion of Government into the money market must be kept to an
absolute minimum, because ultimately the Nation's business determines the
health of our Nation's economy.
Government handouts—I told my wife Betty I knew this speech backwards
and I think I am proving it—[laughter]—the intrusion of the Government
into the money market must be kept to an absolute minimum, because
442
