[217]
April 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
The increase in arrests has been much more rapid than the increase in the
number of judges, prosecutors, and public defenders. The most obvious response
to this imbalance has been to accept pleas of guilt in return for short prison
terms or sentences, or no sentences at all.
According to a recent authoritative report, half of the persons convicted of
felonies in New York received no detention whatsoever. And of the other half,
only one-fifth were sentenced to more than 1 year of imprisonment. Imprison-
ment, thus, too seldom follows conviction for a felony.
In the sixties, crime rates went higher and higher, but the number of persons
in prisons, State and Federal, actually went down. A Rand Corporation report
of one major jurisdiction showed that of all convicted robbers with a major, prior
record, only 27 percent were sent to prison after conviction.
Notice, please, that I'm speaking only of convicted felons. I am not chastising
our system for determining guilt or innocence. I am urging that virtually all of
those convicted of a violent crime should be sent to prison. And this should be
done especially if a gun was involved or there was other substantial danger or
injury to a person or persons. There certainly should be imprisonment if the
convicted person has a prior record of convictions.
Most serious offenders are repeaters. We owe it to their victims-past, present,
and future-to get them off the streets. This is just everyday common sense, as I
see it. The crime rate will go down if persons who habitually commit most of the
predatory crimes are kept in prison for a reasonable period, if convicted, because
they will then not be free to commit more crimes.
Convicts should be treated humanely in prison. Loss of liberty should be the
chief punishment. Improvement in the treatment of and facilities for prisoners
is long overdue. But it is essential that there be less delay in bringing arrested
persons to trial, less plea bargaining, and more courtroom determination of
guilt or innocence, and that all—or practically all—of those actually convicted
of predatory crime be sent to prison.
In many other areas, it is the responsibility of the Federal Government to
augment the enforcement efforts of the States when it becomes necessary.
What else can we do? The Federal Code can be modified to make more
sentences mandatory and, therefore, punishment more certain for those con-
victed of violent crimes.
What can the White House do about this? The Federal role is limited, be-
cause most violent crimes are matters for State and local authorities. Further,
the creation of criminal sanctions and their interpretation are the concerns of
the legislative and judicial branches as well as the executive branch.
592
