[204]
April 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. I wouldn't expect that I would make any commitment on
that until we are further along in our reassessment. It may be desirable at some
point. It may be desirable to meet other parties or other heads of state in the
Middle East, but I don't want to make any commitment tonight as to anyone
or as to more than one.
MR. CRONKITE. Doesn't that sort of imply that we are still being a little bit
hardnosed in our disappointment over the Kissinger mission?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I think it is wise for us to take a look ourselves at the new
options or different options. I certainly wouldn't rule out a meeting with Mr.
Rabin, but I don't want to make any commitment to one until we have moved a
bit further down in the process of reassessment.
I reiterate that if we meet with one, we certainly ought to give others an
opportunity, other heads of state, to have the same input.
MR. CRONKITE. So, there won't be any favored-nation treatment of Israel in
the future?
THE PRESIDENT. I think we have to, in this very difficult situation, where the
possibility of war is certainly a serious one—if you have a war, you are inevitably
going to have an oil embargo—I think we have to be very cautious in our process
of reassessment.
THE NATION'S ECONOMY
[8.] MR. CRONKITE. Mr. President, speaking of an oil embargo and the
general state of the economy, which it directly affects, the cities are broke, the
States are broke, the Federal Government is broke. In order to try to meet reces-
sionary pressures, we feed inflation; to meet inflation, we feed recessionary pres-
sures. Is there any end to this thing? What is down the road economically?
The President. I happen to be a good bit more optimistic than the picture
you paint, Walter. But I think there are a number of facts that give me a good
reason to be fairly optimistic.
We have gone through the most precipitous inventory liquidation in the last
several months in the history of recordkeeping in the United States. We are
almost at the bottom of that. And there are other factors that are appearing that
are encouraging.
We have gotten some good news in the area of a lesser rate of inflation. Retail
sales have held up pretty good. New orders are doing reasonably well.
I am an optimist about moving the economy forward. Now, if we do, in the
latter half of this calendar year, then some of the financial problems of the
Federal Government, State and local units of government, will be in much better
554
