July 7
[383]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
system has proven vital to the Nation's commercial prosperity and to the in-
dividual mobility of millions of Americans.
The Highway Trust Fund which has financed this remarkable program is
scheduled to expire on October 1, 1977. I am today recommending legislation
to extend the Trust Fund but limit its use to completion and improvement of the
Interstate system itself. Other highway projects receiving Federal assistance
would be funded through the general treasury.
In addition, I am recommending that income to the Fund be reduced by trans-
ferring two cents of the current Federal gasoline tax from the Trust Fund to the
general treasury. At the same time, I am recommending that the Federal gaso-
line tax be reduced by one cent per gallon in those States which increase their
State gasoline tax by an equal amount.
In this way, the ability of State and local governments to deal with their own
transportation problems will be improved, but costs to the highway user will not
be increased.
Top priority in this legislation will go to completion of those segments of the
Interstate system which will make the system truly national in scope.
I am also proposing consolidation of Federal highway programs under three
broadly-based categories, combining some thirty narrow grant-in-aid programs
now in existence. The three programs will deal, respectively, with urban and
suburban transportation, rural transportation and highway safety improvements.
The highway program is a classic example of a Federal program that has
expanded over the years into areas of State and local responsibility, distorting the
priorities of those governments.
The legislation I propose will refocus the Federal attention on the Interstate
System, which is clearly of national significance, and provide flexible aid for other
highway construction in a manner which fully respects State and local decision-
making roles.
This is consistent with my general philosophy that we should not, at the
Federal level, extend our influence into areas which other levels of government
can handle better.
As we near our 200th birthday as a Nation, we must select with care the great
national efforts we undertake, reflecting the responsibility we all have to preserve
the integrity of our Republic. We must limit the Federal role to national con-
cerns, strengthen the authority and resources of State and local governments,
and protect the prerogatives of individuals.
I believe this legislation is the most responsible and effective means of meeting
937
