[109]
February 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
one way or another. And number two, if and when the time comes, the proper
thing for them to do would be to apply in the regular procedure or process,
which is through the Pardon Attorney in the Department of Justice.
Q. Without getting into specific cases on the general premise, would you be
sympathetic more in these particular cases toward a pardon because of the
circumstances?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think it would be appropriate to make a comment in
that regard, because they are limited in number and I would not want to preju-
dice their current appeal by any comment that I might make.
ENERGY COSTS
[14.] Q. Mr. President, as you know, Florida boasts some of the highest
electrical power bills in the Nation. Won't the people who pay those bills be
hurt substantially by your foreign oil import program, since most, if not all, of
the oil that Florida power companies burn comes from Venezuela ?
THE PRESIDENT. The energy program that I have recommended would not
result in Florida paying a disproportionate share of any cost increase. As a mat-
ter of fact, under the administrative action that I have taken, we have, under
the first dollar, exempted heating oil as far as Florida is concerned, as far as
New England is concerned, as far as Hawaii—the areas that are, as you indicate,
in the same circumstances as Florida.
And under the permanent program that I have recommended, the added
energy cost to a family or to business or to government would be rebated to the
individual, to the business, and to the governments; so there would be a neutral
impact. Therefore, it seems to me that my proposal is extremely equitable and
would not result in any disproportionate burden being placed on Florida or
any State in a comparable situation.
INTERNATIONAL BANKING COMMUNITY
[15.] Q. Mr. President, your opening statement seemed to imply that the
United States was planning some sort of action against the Arab nations that
have embargoed Jewish-owned banks. Could you be more specific? What sort of
thing might we do in this case, if the embargoes continue?
THE PRESIDENT. All we have so far are some allegations. I have asked the
Departments of Justice, Commerce, and State to investigate any allegations. The
actual action that would be taken will be forthcoming from recommendations
by those departments. They have not been placed on my desk at the present
time.
296
