February 20
[102]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
great faith that they will be, it is my judgment, with less money and greater
flexibility—a better job can be done with less and less bureaucracy.
As you know, we expect to submit legislation to give the States far greater
discretion, far greater authority under a simplified system of transportation
grants, but this is only one of the many, many steps that we hope to take in a
concerted effort to eliminate categorical grants and to expand the block grant
approach.
Judging from my talks with many of you individually as well as collectively,
I know that I can count on you not to be shy about making your views well
known. And I respect you and I welcome you for that frankness and that
candor. And I appreciate your vigor—just spread it around a little bit in Wash-
ington, if you will, please.
With your help, I look to the Domestic Council to reflect in its policy advice
to me and in assessing national needs a truly representative national viewpoint
of understanding and cooperation. Let this partnership, as I see it, include
especially the views of all officials of State and local units of government in
showing the initiative and the responsibilities as embodied in the concepts of
general revenue sharing.
Let me tell you, I know where the money comes from. The source is the tax-
payer back home, not the Federal Government. We are only-in Washing-
ton—the conduit, so the funds can return home for local use by local authorities
for their State and community programs.
And now that I have restated as emphatically as I possibly can my philosophy
and the working relationship that I hope to achieve, in which you have been
very kind and receptive, it seems to me that another toast is in order.
Let us drink to our friendship, to our partnership, and to the closer ties that
we seek among us.
Ladies and gentlemen, to the United States.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:45 p.m. in the State
Dining Room at the White House.
Governor Calvin L. Rampton of Utah, the chair-
man of the National Governors' Conference, re-
sponded to the President's toast. His remarks are
printed in the Weekly Compilation of Presidential
Documents (vol. 11, p. 205).
269
