April 28
[220]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Believe me, we need that kind of vitality, that zest for problemsolving, and
that absence of cynicism that so typifies your membership. Let me also con-
gratulate you on the relevance of your theme for this meeting: "America's
Future-Our Critical Choices."
As leaders of business, industry, government, we join together to explore
the future, so that we may seize the opportunities and be better able to cope
with the problems that we face in common. The mutuality of our problems was
never more clearly stated than when I was introduced at a business conference
quite recently.
The moderator said, "The greatness of America is that anyone can grow
up to be president of an auto company, president of an airline, president of a
utility, or President of the United States." Then he took a long pause and
added, “That's just one of the chances you have to take.” [Laughter]
Now, speaking of presidents, I would like you to join with me in a salute to
someone we're all fond of and proud of, someone who has been a driving force
in the Chamber.Arch Booth is leaving as Chamber president to begin some new
adventures. In his 32 years with the Chamber, he has helped to build this
organization into a dynamic force for good in America, a force that is adaptable,
responsive, and innovative.
As long as I have been in Washington—which is more than a generation,
Arch-you have been a force for progress in the White House and on Capitol
Hill. We will miss you, and all of us wish you the very, very best.
It is appropriate at this 63d meeting that my appearance here this morning
follows a slide show sketching the critical choices for the future of our country.
That presentation hits many of the points that I have been discussing around
the country for the past few months. These critical choices must be made, and
they must be made just as swiftly as the Congress and this Administration can
work out effective solutions.
One of the most serious problems facing us, of course, is the runaway spend-
ing of the Federal Government. It poses a genuine threat to our way of life. I
have called upon the Congress to hold the deficit line this year at what I
consider the alarming figure of some $60 billion.
I am pleased that both Houses of the Congress appear ready to use their newly
instituted budget reform procedures to impose ceilings on total spending for
the next fiscal year. Even though I strongly feel the ceilings proposed by the
Congressional budget committees are too high, I am glad that some in the
Congress are demonstrating more concern about overall spending than has
been the case in the past.
599
