[167]
April 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
As President and Commander in Chief, it is my sworn duty to maintain and
strengthen the power for peace which the United States possesses, both at home
and abroad. The military strength of this Nation depends, as it always has, on
its economic strength and the willpower and self-discipline of all of its people.
The credibility of the United States, our credibility throughout the world,
both among our allies and our adversaries, depends upon their assessment of our
moral, economic, and military strength and staying power. All of these elements
are extremely essential.
Let me consider briefly the problems of ensuring and increasing our economic
strength. In this, the obvious priority is to get out of the recession we have been
experiencing and, particularly, to increase employment and to get the jobless
back into productive jobs. That is our highest priority.
But along with that urgent goal goes another priority—less obvious to some—
which is to end the recession without adding unnecessarily to the inflationary
pressures which have plagued us for many years prior to the recession and
which, quite frankly, helped to bring it on. We must make more jobs and
reverse the recession without recklessly inviting a new round of double-digit
inflation, rising interest rates, and higher prices, which we all know, in the long
run, would cancel out whatever stimulus and expansionary incentive we can
apply to the economy in the short run.
That is why I am personally determined to hold the line on all massive Fed-
eral spending programs which are in various stages moving through the Con-
gress. That is why I have drawn the line at a maximum budget deficit of $60
billion, which is where we stand at the present time, and it is as far as we dare
to go without endangering economic recovery.
I am gratified that many of the responsible Members of the Congress, House
and Senate, on both sides of the political aisle, have spoken out publicly of the
danger of more massive Federal deficits. Not merely the Administration but the
country needs their help and will need their votes when the showdowns come.
But I have no wish to wage a veto war with the Congress. Quite frankly, we have
enough real wars and rumors of wars without getting into one of those.
What I would prefer is for the Congress to exercise its constitutional power
of the purse with the responsibility and prudence that the people expect of it.
Congress must cut rather than spend. It must reduce existing programs instead
of creating new ones. As I look at the horrendous figures, Congress cannot go
on giving away more and more Government benefits without considering how
to pay for them and the damage that will be done by borrowing to pay for them.
When the American people individually and collectively all over the country
426
