April 30
[223]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
our area is dangerous, not only to all those who
live in it but to the future of mankind.
I am proud of the fact that I don't speak only
for myself but for many of the area's leaders,
many of our present Arab world, and to say that we
wish for nothing more than a just and durable
peace. We are proud of the fact that we have con-
tributed our utmost towards that end, and we have
determined to do our utmost for that end.
We know very well that the United States will
continue to look at our problems with interest and
with determination, to play the major role which
only the United States can play for the attainment
of the goal of peace.
We have watched with admiration and respect the
many efforts, sir, made under your wise auspices
and leadership-the efforts and initiatives of our
great friend, Dr. Kissinger, the patience, the
perseverance, and the dedication. Regardless of the
outcome to date, we admire the spirit, and we ap-
preciate the tremendous efforts, and we will always
do so.
We look into the future with hope at the chance
that is ahead of us-which may be the final
chance—and a tragic history of lost opportunities
may be taken by all concerned for the establishment
of a just and durable peace.
We saw difficulties, sir. We feel that they are both
in our area and in the world as a whole.
I thank you for the time and the patience, and I
look forward to my days in Washington and the
opportunity to meet and talk very frankly with
all our friends on all issues of mutual interest.
I thank you, sir, for giving me this time, and I
can assure you that we will continue to do our
utmost to work together for a better future in our
area and in the world, ever proud of the friendship
that exists between us, ever determined to see that
we strengthen the ties that happily exist and have
existed for so long between our nations and our
peoples.
Gentlemen, I would wish you to join me in
drinking a toast to the President of the United
States, his continued good health, success, and to the
United States and to the friendship that we hope
will always grow between the Arab people and the
people of the United States.
The President.
223
Statement Urging Congressional Adoption of a Federal
Spending Ceiling. April 30, 1975
THIS WEEK the Congress has an opportunity to show the American people
where they stand on fiscal responsibility.
Under a new procedure established by the Congress last year, budget com-
mittees have been established in both the House and the Senate. These com-
mittees have been hard at work since the 94th Congress convened. Each com-
mittee has now produced a resolution calling for a ceiling on Federal spending
for fiscal year 1976, and these resolutions will come before the Members for a
vote this week.
As you know, when I signed the tax cut bill, I drew my line on the Federal
deficit at $60 billion. I reaffirm my commitment to that $60 billion ceiling and
urge in strongest possible terms its acceptance by Congress.
Both the House and the Senate resolutions would raise my ceiling. The Sen-
ate resolution would approve a deficit of $67 billion; the House $73 billion. I
strongly believe my limit is far preferable to either alternative.
Until now, there has been no mechanism for instilling discipline in the total
spending actions of the Congress. Instead, the legislative process has proceeded
607
