February 11
[85]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
what I have recommended, I can understand the reasons for the plowback
provision.
ENERGY CONSERVATION
[7.] Q. Mr. President, voluntary conservation still seems to be a weak hope
in the program and to some of us more skeptical. Does it still rate a high priority
with the Administration, and if it does, do you see the need for any more restric-
tive plan?
THE PRESIDENT. I think you have to have voluntary cooperation from 213 mil-
lion Americans. I think their affirmative participation is very vital. On the other
hand, it seems to me that we need stronger action, and that is why I have recom-
mended to the Congress this comprehensive program and this, I think, very fair
and equitable effort to get some action.
This program has four basic foundations: number one, conservation by the
price mechanism; number two, added supply by stimulating exploration and
development; number three, equity in the return of tax money to people, to
business, to States; and number four, security. This program gets America going
in making us invulnerable against foreign oil cartels. And yet, we do need volun-
tary cooperation at the same time.
JOHN CONNALLY
[8.] Q. Mr. President, you have tried to set, in writing, standards of ethics
for members of your Administration. I want to ask you about your meeting last
night in Houston with former Texas Governor John Connally, who, as you
know, is under indictment.³ On second thought, do you think there might be
anything improper for the Nation's chief legal officer to meet with a man who is
under indictment? We know that you did not discuss that indictment with him;
we were assured of that by your Press Secretary.
THE PRESIDENT. Let me say, very categorically, I have known former Governor
Connally for a great many years. He was appointed Secretary of the Navy by
former President Kennedy. He was elected Governor of Texas on three occa-
sions and served 6 years. He was Secretary of the Treasury under Mr. Nixon. He
is a very knowledgeable public servant. It seems to me that with a man of that
3 On July 29, 1974, Mr. Connally was indicted on charges of bribery, perjury, and conspiracy to obstruct
justice in connection with an effort to raise milk price support levels while he was Secretary of the Treasury
in 1971. He was acquitted of the charges in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia on April 17,
1975.
225
