March 29
[164]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
books, by increased unemployment compensation, and reduced tax revenues
due to the recession.
This is where we are today. The tax cuts in the bill I have just signed and
other changes will bring the estimated fiscal year 1976 deficit up to approxi-
mately $60 billion.
Since January, Congress has rejected or ignored most of my requested spend-
ing cuts. If Congress fails to make these reductions, it will add up to about $12
billion to the contemplated 1976 deficit. On top of that, as I look at the new spend-
ing actions which committees of the Congress are already seriously considering,
I can easily add up another $30 billion of spending. This would bring the deficit
to the enormous total of $100 billion.
Deficits of this magnitude are far too dangerous to permit. They threaten
another vicious spiral of runaway, double-digit inflation which could well
choke off any economic recovery.
Interest rates, now starting down, would again climb as the Federal Govern-
ment borrowed from the private money market to finance its $100 billion deficit.
Individual citizens would be unable to borrow money for new homes, cars, and
other needs. Businesses, despite the increased tax credit, would delay investments
and expansions to put the unemployed back to work. I am, therefore, serving
notice now that this is as high as our fiscal 1976 deficit should go. I am drawing
the line right here [indicating $60 billion on chart].
This is as far as we dare to go.
I will insist (resist) every attempt by the Congress to add another dollar to
this deficit by new spending programs. I will make no exceptions, except where
our long-range national security interests are involved, as in the attainment of
energy independence or for urgent humanitarian needs.
In short, in signing this bill, I am keeping my promise to reach a reasonable
compromise with the Congress and to provide a needed boost to the economy.
I must say again, this is as far as I will go.
If we use common sense and prudence, I am confident that the present reces-
sion will retreat into history.
If your Congressmen and your Senators return from their recess with new
awareness of your deep concern and desire for caution and care in steering our
difficult economic course, we will soon get back on the broad highway of increas-
ing productivity and prosperity for all our people.
Thank you and good evening.
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:31 p.m. from the
Oval Office at the White House. His address was
broadcast live on radio and television.
As enacted, H.R. 2166 is Public Law 94-12 (89
Stat. 26).
409
