January 23
[42]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Q. Do you think the Congress is going to be fast in acting on this program?
THE PRESIDENT. All I can say is the Congress can act fast, and I hope they do.
Q. Do you think you got the support of the Governors today, Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT. I think I have their support in the need for action, and I hope
that they will work with me in producing action, because they can have and, I
am sure, will have a very, very beneficial impact on the Congress. Because if my
plan is enacted, individuals, State and local units of government, and businesses
will get refunds from the additional fees, will stimulate production of alternative
sources, and will make our country invulnerable to any foreign oil embargo.
Q. Did the Governors indicate they would file suit, sir, to block your new
fees?
THE PRESIDENT. They did not indicate that to me.
Q. Mr. President, are you at all concerned that the Governors do not seem to
have been convinced when they left here?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, there is an honest difference of opinion. I respect their
views, and I trust they respect mine.
Q. If this becomes a nationwide reaction, what hope is there for progress?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the Congress has the opportunity to act. The Congress is
in session, and the Congress can act on my plan or if they have an alternative
plan that is action and equitable, then the Congress has carried out its function.
But the Congress right now has the responsibility to act affirmatively.
Q. The Governor of Maine says that you seem to be isolated and listening to
just your own aides on this issue.
THE PRESIDENT. I looked at a number of volumes of alternative proposals, a
number of options. I analyzed the various options. And after a thorough study
and a great deal of consultation, I have put together a comprehensive plan.
Now, what we need as an alternative, if they don't like this, is something as
comprehensive, as equitable. And I hope the Congress will take the initiative.
Q. Mr. President, you have indicated a willingness to compromise?
THE PRESIDENT. I have indicated a willingness to compromise, but the Con-
gress has to act in order to have any compromise.
Q. Mr. President, as you know, the chairman of the Ways and Means Commit-
tee has said that your tax proposals will be held up by your refusal to delay your
proclamation today, because they will have to study that now. I take it that now,
energy conservation is your first priority over your tax proposals?
THE PRESIDENT. Not at all. I have indicated to the chairman of the Commit-
tee on Ways and Means that I wanted the Congress to act first on the action
required to stimulate the economy, and I hope the Congress follows that action.
85
