[77]
February 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
The activity toward Sickle Cell Anemia continues to be of high priority for
our Government and I am pleased to commend this report to the attention of
the Congress.
The White House,
February 6, 1975.
NOTE: The report, entitled "Second Annual Report
on the Administration of the National Sickle Cell
GERALD R. FORD
Anemia Control Act," covers the period January 1,
1973 to June 30, 1974 (15 pp. plus appendixes).
78
Joint Statement Following Discussions With Prime Minister
Bhutto of Pakistan. February 7, 1975
PRESIDENT Ford and Prime Minister Bhutto held cordial and useful dis-
cussions during the Prime Minister's visit to Washington February 4-7. They
welcomed the opportunity to establish a personal relationship in the spirit of
cooperation and understanding which has traditionally existed between leaders
of the two countries. The President and the Prime Minister stressed their com-
mitment to the strengthening of the close ties which have been maintained
between the United States and Pakistan for many years.
The two leaders discussed the important international political developments
of the past eighteen months with particular emphasis on the significant steps
taken in furthering international détente, the vital efforts to secure a just and
lasting peace in the Middle East, and proposals to increase cooperation between
developing and developed countries.
They also reviewed the important steps taken to bring about more normal
relations among the nations of South Asia. The Prime Minister expressed
Pakistan's determination to continue to play a constructive role in the search for
peaceful solutions to regional disputes, so as to promote the establishment of
durable peace in the Subcontinent. President Ford assured the Prime Minister
that support for the independence and territorial integrity of Pakistan remains
an enduring principle of American foreign policy. The two leaders also dis-
cussed their mutual security concerns in the context of the commitment of their
Governments to the strengthening of regional and world peace.
President Ford expressed his deep sympathy over the loss of life resulting
from the devastating earthquake which recently struck northern Pakistan. The
202
