[164]
March 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
too long to find out what investments they can make to improve their production
and put people back on the payroll. Confidence depends on certainty. And while
the Congress deliberated, uncertainty has clouded financial planning throughout
the country. Our country needs the stimulus and the support of a tax cut and
needs it now.
I have therefore decided to sign this bill so that its economic benefits can begin
to work.
I do this despite the serious drawbacks in the bill. Most of the drawbacks are
enacted for only 1 year. I strongly urge the Members of the Congress to calmly
reflect upon these provisions and let the worst expire. However, any damage
they do is outweighed by the urgent necessity of an antirecession tax reduction
right now.
Even if I asked the Congress to send me a better bill and it did, it would
take too long a time to get one back, and I cannot, in good conscience, risk more
delay. But I will work with the Congress to not only remedy the deficiencies
in this bill but also the dangerous actions and attitudes towards huge Federal
deficits some Members have already shown in other legislative decisions.
The first part of my economic recovery recommendations last January—a
prompt tax cut of reasonable size-now becomes law.
[At this point, the President signed H.R. 2166.]
The second and equally important part of my economic program was to
restrain Federal spending by cutting back $17 billion in existing programs and
by a 1-year moratorium on all new Federal spending programs, except in the
critical field of energy.
So far, these proposals have been mostly ignored or rejected by a majority of
the Members of the Congress. Now that we have reduced our tax revenues by
some $7 billion more than I proposed, we must move to reduce Federal spending
in every way we can. We cannot afford another round of inflation due to giant
and growing deficits that would cancel out all our expected gains in economic
recovery.
Maybe I can show you the situation better on this chart.
If Congress had accepted all my economic recovery proposals, both for tax
cuts and spending cuts, the estimated Federal deficit for fiscal year 1976 would
have been about $52 billion, as represented by this column.
This kind of a deficit is far too high, but most of it was unavoidable and was
brought about by mandatory Federal payment programs already on the statute
408
