May 5
[238]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
attitudes, concerns, information, interests. Then we shine the spotlight of our
unique perceptions on each problem, each new challenge.
Your spotlight is not mine; mine is not yours. Sometimes we differ, but the
essence and the glory of the true family is this: Decisions and conclusions may be
questioned, but motivation and commitment are not. We speak our differences in
trust. We accept that we are travelers heading towards the same destination; it's
only the road that has to be determined.
This is the First Family I know we all want to be a part of. We have shared
some of these feelings here tonight. We should never aspire to less.
Thank you and good night.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:23 p.m. in the
International Ballroom at the Washington Hilton
Hotel. In his remarks, he referred to Helen Thomas,
United Press International correspondent and presi-
dent of the association; Danny and Marlo Thomas,
who entertained at the dinner; Richard H. Growald
of United Press International; Aldo H. Beckman of
the Chicago Tribune; Sarah McClendon of the
McClendon News Service; James Deakin of the St.
Louis Post-Dispatch; and Martin Agronsky of the
Public Broadcasting Service and host of "Agronsky
& Company," a weekly television news program on
which Peter Lisagor of the Chicago Daily News
usually appeared.
238
Remarks Upon Presenting the Multiple Sclerosis Mother and
Father of the Year Awards.
May 5, 1975
LET ME, on behalf of the White House and all of the American people, give to
you, Mrs. Smith and Mr. Flader, these two plaques from the National Multiple
Sclerosis Society, plaques which recognize your courage and your real strength.
I think you both are a great symbol of what people can do despite difficulties
and handicaps. We are all very proud of you, and we all are extending to you the
very, very best.
I hope and trust that in the years ahead your example will be one for all to
follow.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1 p.m. in the Oval
Office at the White House. He presented the awards
to Mrs. Merrill Smith of Spokane, Wash., and
Robert Flader of Virginia Beach, Va.
637
