February 13
[91]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
rencies or payments in some other currency rather than U.S. dollars for oil
exports?
THE PRESIDENT. With apologies, I think I had better let Alan Greenspan
answer that, and he will be here, along with Frank Zarb, after I leave, if you
would excuse me.
Well, I will take one from the lady over here.
FEDERAL BORROWING
[7.] Q. I am Dr. Edith Sands of Long Island University. Mr. President,
my question is, if the Government borrows $52 billion to cover its deficit, what
credit will be left for business and consumers?
THE PRESIDENT. I have been assured by Alan Greenspan, by others that advise
me who are experts and who are technicians, that that amount of borrowing, or
the amount of borrowing that reflects that deficit can be met in our financial
circles. I said in my remarks, as you may remember, I think if Congress doesn't
respond to the recommendations I have made to hold the line to the extent of
$17 billion on additional spending-so they go from $52 to $69 billion—then
my curbstone opinion is that the problem you raise becomes somewhat serious.
So, I urge you to urge your Senators and your Members of the House to take
a good, strong position on cutting back that $17 billion. It is important because
we don't want to have to borrow $17 billion more; $52 billion is enough.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:33 p.m. in the
Security Analysts Journal meeting room at the Secu-
rity Analysts Building. In his opening remarks, he
referred to Arthur Carlson, president of the society,
and Louis J. Lefkowitz, New York State attorney
general.
91
Remarks at a Dinner in New York City Honoring Vice President
Rockefeller. February 13, 1975
Thank you very, very much, Nelson.
I will respond with my deepest appreciation and wonderful gratitude with
some comments just in a few moments, but let me thank Gus and Brook ¹ and all
of you who have come here tonight. I am just so pleased and, of course, honored.
I think it is wonderful to have Jack Javits, Jim Buckley, Malcolm Wilson,²
¹ Gustave L. Levy was chairman and Brook Astor (Mrs. W. Vincent Astor) was cochairman of the dinner.
'Senators Jacob K. Javits and James L. Buckley, and Gov. Malcolm Wilson.
247
