[84]
February 11
Public Papers of the Presidents
projects that will produce meaningful jobs; second, on improvements that will
enhance highway safety; and third, on projects that will complete key links in
our interstate system.
Priority—and I add this as a very important part of the recommendation—
will also be given to urban mass transportation projects which State and local
officials agree should be substituted for less critical highway projects.
Now, solving our problems, as I look down the road, will not be easy. But I
would remind you of something that a man from Abilene, Kansas, one of the
greatest men that Kansas ever produced, once said, and I quote: "Free men do
not lose their patience, their courage, their faith, because obstacles are moun-
tainous, the path uncharted. Given understanding, they invariably rise to the
challenge."
Dwight Eisenhower knew this was true, and he proved it as a gallant com-
mander during World War II and as President of the United States.
And he had something else to say about American history and the American
character that I believe bears repeating today, when we are hearing so much
from prophets of doom and gloom. And here is what Ike had to say in this
regard: “It has been the tough-minded optimist,” Ike said, “whom history has
proved right in America."
This was true in Ike's time and it is true in ours as well.
I am a tough-minded optimist. And may I reciprocate by saying, as I look at
this chamber, I know that each and every one of you, as well as you collectively,
are tough-minded optimists as well.
I believe in America, as you do. I believe in America's future, as you do. I am
confident that you, joined with me in this great challenge that we face both at
home and abroad-we are optimists, we are strong, we have a faith, we are
dedicated. And I simply conclude by saying we can do the job together, and I
am honored and pleased to have had an opportunity of being with you here on
this fine occasion.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:09 p.m. in the
House Chamber at the State Capitol, Topeka, Kans.
In his opening remarks, he referred to Duane S.
McGill, speaker of the house of representatives, and
Richard D. Rogers, president of the senate, Kansas
State Legislature; and Harold R. Fatzer, chief justice
of the Kansas Supreme Court.
220
