[74]
February 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
be sure that this Government regards the sovereignty and the territorial integrity
of a strong, secure, and prosperous Pakistan as a fundamental element in main-
taining regional and world peace.
So, if I might, Mr. Prime Minister, let me propose a toast to you, Prime
Minister and Begum Bhutto, to the ideals and to the hopes they personify so
very well, and to further strengthening of our relations between our two
countries.
To Prime Minister and Begum Bhutto.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:56 p.m. in the State
Dining Room at the White House. Prime Minister
Bhutto responded as follows:
Mr. President, Mrs. Ford, distinguished friends:
At the outset, I would like to say that my com-
panions-those who have come with me from
Pakistan-on their behalf and on behalf of the
people of my country and on my own behalf, we
would like to thank you, Mr. President, and your
Government for the very warm and generous hos-
pitality which you have extended to us.
I have been here on a number of occasions, and
each occasion has been a memorable one because
it has been a journey to the capital of a great power,
a super power, a power to reckon with, a power
which has a role to play in the tranquilization of
the world situation and has exercised a formidable
influence on men and matters for a very long period
of time.
Here at this table we had the honor of having
a very congenial conversation with Mrs. Ford and
with the very dangerous man sitting on my right.¹
[Laughter]
He told us that this evening he came to the
White House in a taxi. So that reminded me of
one occasion during my many visits to your great
capital, and it was in 1965. President Ayub then was
in charge of the destiny of our country, and we had
prolonged discussions with President Johnson.
And the discussions went well, but at the same
time we left the room a little depressed. So I and
some of my companions went to all the nightclubs
in Washington.
And when we left the last place, we told the
taxidriver, "Take us to Blair House." He said,
"Are you kidding?" [Laughter]
Be that as it may, we warmly cherish our friend-
ship and our association with the great American
people.
As I told you this morning, Mr. President, the
vitality and the energy of the American people
have impressed us very much and has impressed
the world at large.
I have often thought of your great values. I
might be wrong, but I feel that it lies in your people,
it lies in your institutions, and it lies in the leader-
ship that the American Government has given to
its own people and to the world at large at critical
times.
These are critical times, and you have been sum-
moned by destiny to take charge of the affairs of
your country at a time when the world stands at
the watershed. And many of your decisions might
make or mar the course of events.
We feel that with your vision and with the very
able lieutenants that you have, especially in the
field of foreign affairs, that you will overcome one
challenge after another and promote the cause of
peace and good will.
There are problems which confront you inter-
nally; there are problems which confront you in the
world outside. The Middle East, Europe, your efforts
to promote a détente, your dialog with China-all
this the world watches. Every step you take is
observed. And so, we hope that with the passage
of time, we will turn the corner, all of us put
together the whole world.
You will make a very major contribution. But
whatever little contribution-small, insignificant-
underdeveloped countries like ours can make, we
would all be happy to see a happier world.
And I can assure you that on our part we will
try to promote peace and consolidate the tissues
of peace. We would not like to add tension to
tension. We would not like to aggravate the situa-
tion in our own region, and the world at large can
move forward to a situation where our children,
at least, will feel more secure and happier, and they
will admire the role that this present generation
made to achieve that noble end.
This is a beautiful world, and we must preserve
its beauty. Future generations should not say that,
like Shelley, the super powers found an Ozyman-
dias. They should say that the super powers, with
bravery and with vision and with courage, reckoned
with the problems and overcame them.
¹ The Prime Minister was referring to columnist Art Buchwald.
198
