[108]
February 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
It is a dynamic State. It is a friendly State. It is a State that is a very strong
and integral part of our Union. As a matter of fact, Florida is the wave of the
future.
You have had phenomenal growth. It is an area of tremendous change and
challenge. And I am well aware of the great contribution of your Cuban-
American community to your culture and your economic prosperity.
Here in Florida you have lived at the starting line of America's adventure
in space,
the breaking of one space barrier after another. We have now reached,
as all of you know, beyond the Moon to the most distant of our planets.
You have been part of massive technological breakthroughs, and these advan-
tages have opened up vast new horizons to mankind here on Earth.
I think the record is quite clear. Life has changed more in this century than
in the preceding 2,000 years. The world has literally been transformed. Our
mission, your job and mine, is to confront these changes with modern-day
answers.
The greatest change is in the cost of energy. The United States must declare
independence from foreign sources of energy, and the sooner the better. The
public and private sectors of our society will spend literally hundreds of billions
of dollars over the next decade to explore and to develop new energy. Millions
of workers and the massive power of our technology will combine to attack the
problems before us. I am always an optimist. We must and we will win that
struggle.
The facts are we are now importing more oil, foreign oil, than ever before,
before the embargo. As a matter of fact, just a year ago we were importing
roughly 6 million barrels a day. Today we are importing roughly 7 million
barrels per day, and as a consequence, we are faced with even graver risks today
than we were 12 months or 18 months ago.
I can see nothing but folly in pouring out more and more of our own national
treasure to meet the ever-rising and intolerable costs of high-priced foreign oil.
Two hundred years ago, George Washington threw a dollar across the Rappa-
hannock and made history. It is in all our history books. Today, unfortunately,
the American people are throwing $70 million a day across international waters,
and many too many people really do not care whether we do it or not. That is
an intolerable situation.
If the Congress takes the 90 days it is demanding to develop its own energy
program, every single day will be one day of costly delay, adding about $200
million in costs for petroleum imports alone during this 90-day span of time.
And if enactment of our comprehensive energy program is delayed for the
282
