[220]
April 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
and the equally imperative need to consider the inflationary effects of all proposed
new regulations.
Let me reaffirm to you today my deep personal conviction that the best way to
begin in our efforts is to improve the government we have, not to enlarge it. I do
not believe a bigger government is necessarily a better government. May I add
this: Please never forget, a government big enough to give us everything we
want is a government big enough to take from us everything we have.
I have ordered action by the executive departments and agencies to make
major improvements in the quality of service to the consumer, and I have asked
the Congress to postpone action on legislation which would create a new Federal
agency for consumer advocacy. I do not believe that we need yet another Federal
bureaucracy in Washington with its attendant costs of about $60 million over the
next 3 years and hundreds of additional Federal employees.
At a time when we are trying to cut down both the size and the cost of Govern-
ment, it would be unsound to add still another layer of bureaucracy. Instead, the
program I have outlined represents the first steps toward improving Govern-
ment's ability to serve all of its citizens.
Let me add, I need your help in so many ways. I need your views, your ideas,
and yes, your suggestions, for in that way, we can bring the full weight of the
business community to bear down on solving the mutual problems that we face.
I urge you to bring to my attention those Government practices which you feel
unnecessarily add to costs and interfere with the effective working of our free
enterprise system. You will be doing your country and your fellow businessmen
a service as well as yourself.
We have a unique opportunity right now to make some long-overdue changes
in a system of regulations which has not kept pace with the times. The critical
choices remain to be made, but I am confident that America has the capability
and the desire to respond to those challenges. These fundamental reforms are
vital to our economic recovery and our long-range stability.
I commend the Chamber for the advertisements entitled, "What's Right With
America." Of the 12 items listed in the ad, I particularly like number six, which
says, "We have a willingness to experiment with different forms of social, eco-
nomic, and political organization-keeping what works and discarding what
doesn't."
That sums up very well what I have said to you here today. So, let's work
together in this effort which will benefit all Americans.
Thank you very much.
604
