[400]
July 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
have to make some division between one group and another in order to get it
approved, but I think the overriding interest is in the need for judges.
So, as far as we are concerned, we will work out with those that feel there
should be some equal division—and I understand it—so that we can meet the
needs of our Federal court system. I think we also have to recognize there is a
need for an increase in Federal judicial salaries.
Let me assure you that in the most discreet way, the Chief Justice, without
violating any constitutional limitations, has talked to me on several occasions.
[Laughter] He has talked to a number of Members of the Congress. And at
his specific request, I got a group of the Democratic and Republican leaders to
the White House, along with people from the executive branch, to again men-
tion with emphasis the problems in the field of compensation for Federal judges.
So, you have a good advocate. We just have to find some way to get some action.
Let me say this: In my crime message, which was submitted to the Congress
several weeks ago, I strongly supported, as I think it is absolutely essential, legis-
lation to expand the jurisdiction of Federal magistrates. You know better than
I that the expansion of that responsibility can be very helpful in alleviating
some of the caseload problems in the Federal judicial system.
In addition, in this crime message, I did propose action on the scope and the
process of Federal jurisdiction, including the range of diversity, jurisdiction, the
advisability of three-judge courts, possible avenues of Federal-State cooperation,
and related proposals—all of which could be materially beneficial in reducing
the caseload.
Accordingly, in this process, I have requested a comprehensive review of
Administration efforts on judicial improvements and an examination of the full
spectrum of problems facing the judiciary.
Because the State courts are being equally, if not greater, taxed by special
problems, I have recommended an extension of Law Enforcement Assistance
Administration programs calling attention specifically to the financial and the
technical assistance requirements of our State courts.
The Administration is also aware of the need to consider the judicial impact
of any new legislation, and I can assure you that we will examine the potential
for litigation arising from any of our proposals. It has been my observation that
too often Federal laws have been passed without adequate consideration of their
impact or the effect on our Federal court system.
From its founding, the Nation has expected its courts to perform vitally im-
portant functions, and in recent years the Federal bench has wrestled with many
of these controversial issues in our society.
986
