April 15
[187]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
to the Republican National Committee and to the House and Senate campaign
committees, whose combined efforts are vital to our goals.
Now, after 8 months in the White House, I know better than anyone—and
I mean anyone—the importance of Republicans in the Congress of the United
States.
I promise you this: I do not choose to run in 1976 for myself alone. My 1976
campaign will be for all Republicans everywhere, from the local to the State
to the national level.
This dinner tonight brings a broad resurgence of Republican strength every-
where, but especially in the House, the Senate, and the State capitals. It is vital
to our Administration and to our entire Nation that we work at every State and
every precinct to restore balance, which I think is essential in our national polit-
ical system.
We will be partners in a common and a very crucial cause—the cause of a
Republican victory.
The one thing that I learned in the hard contest once every 2 years, in more
than a quarter of a century of political involvement, is that prospects for victory
are seldom so bleak or so good as they seem when you are in the thick of a fight.
Time after time after time a supposedly ruined party has been rebuilt and
returned stronger than ever on each occasion. And repeatedly, candidates once
considered unbeatable have been beaten.
Now, quite frankly, looking over the hopeful Democrats in the Presidential
sweepstakes, frankly I don't see any who are unbeatable.
As some of you may remember when I, in January of 1965, became minority
leader, we were outnumbered 295 to 140 in the House. Those odds were un-
believable, and Ev Dirksen had even, as I recollect, worse odds in the United
States Senate.
Yet, 2 years later, when the House next assembled, there was 248 to 187, a
net gain of 47 seats for Republicans. And in the Senate we made some gains
as well.
What I am saying is—and we should remember this as we challenge the phi-
losophy, the views of those that are in the political arena-if we have good can-
didates, if we have the right principles, we have done it in the past, we can and
we will do it again.
So, if I might, let me make a prediction or two. This is based on some experi-
ence. As the economy continues to improve this year and next—and it will—
we will be in good shape in November of 1976 to win local, State, and national
489
