January 28
[50]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
I am deeply grateful for the invitation to this annual Congressional breakfast,
which I have attended rather faithfully when I was a Member of the House
and from which I not only derived a great deal of good, a great deal of religious
inspiration but also powerful encouragement, which is described in the familiar
hymn as “the fellowship of kindred minds.” I might say, in a secular way, I
strongly hope for some of that spirit with the new Congress. [Laughter]
Last year I had the great privilege of being here with you as Vice President,
and I guess the first thing that I ought to assure you this morning is that I am
not going to do any more job-hopping. [Laughter]
As President, I have been cautioned to be very careful about what I say about
religious matters. But the separation of church and state, although a fundamen-
tal principle to which I fully subscribe, was never intended, in my view, to
separate public morality from public policy. It says that the power of govern-
ment shall not be used to support or suppress any one faith, but in the same
sentence protects the profession and the propagation of all faiths.
I took a minute yesterday to reread the first amendment to our great Consti-
tution before coming over to join you again on this occasion. And this is what
it says, and if I might quote: "Congress shall make no law respecting an estab-
lishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the
freedom of speech, or of the press; or the right of the people peaceably to
assemble, and to petition the Government for a redress of grievances."
Now, that says an awful lot in one sentence. It sustains some of our most
precious rights. It also underscores how interrelated they are. Freedom to exer-
cise one's religion would be meaningless without freedom of speech and of
assembly. Without freedom of the press, there could be neither religious books
nor religious broadcasters.
As we proudly enter a period of celebrating our Bicentennial of independence
as a nation, we must remember that our great traditions of freedom did not
suddenly start in 1776. For more than two centuries before the Liberty Bell rang,
the processes of conflict and compromise were working on this great new conti-
nent, and the impassioned extremes of religious and political rivalry were tested
and were found wanting.
In the end, our Founding Fathers sought to establish a new order of society
embodying the principles of tolerance and freedom, of uħity in diversity, of
justice with charity.
So, the first amendment was written to ensure the perpetuation of the hard-
learned lessons from our colonial history that religious belief can neither be
coerced nor suppressed by government; that a free people must retain the right
115
