June 25
[354]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
would be unacceptable, or do you have something else in mind, and could you
spell that out? What does "unacceptable" mean?
THE PRESIDENT. It means that it is unacceptable in the sense that we as a
nation individually and we as a nation in conjunction with our allies are going
to find some answers other than OPEC oil.
Yes, Mr. Schieffer [Bob Schieffer, CBS News].
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
[9.] Q. Mr. President, in response to your comments to Helen at the begin-
ning of the news conference, let me just ask you this question point blank: If
North Korea attacked South Korea, would you use nuclear weapons to stop
that?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think, Mr. Schieffer, that I ought to, in a news con-
ference like this, discuss what I might or would do under the circumstances you
describe. We have a strong deterrent force, strategically and tactically, and of
course, those forces will be used in a flexible way in our own national interest,
but I do not believe it is in our national interest to discuss how or when they
would be used under the circumstances-
Q. You are flatly not ruling it out, though?
THE PRESIDENT. I am not either confirming it or denying it. I am saying we
have the forces and they will be used in our national interest, as they should be.
Mr. Lisagor [Peter Lisagor, Chicago Daily News].
THE SOVIET UNION
[10.] Q. Mr. President, your old sidekick, the former Secretary of Defense,
Melvin Laird, has written in a magazine article that the Russians have repeatedly
violated the SALT agreement and have mocked détente, and he also has some
things to say about what they are doing in Portugal and the Middle East. How
concerned are you about these charges?
THE PRESIDENT. I have investigated the allegations that the Soviet Union
has violated the SALT agreements, that they have used loopholes to do certain
things that were intended not to be done under the agreement.
I have found that they have not violated the SALT agreement, they have not
used any loopholes. And in order to determine whether they have or they have
not, there is a standing consultative group that is an organization for the purpose
of deciding after investigation whether there have been any violations. And that
group, after looking into the allegations, came to the conclusion there had been
no violations.
873
