April 21
[204]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
shape. Their revenues will increase, including ours. So, this acute situation
today that you describe very dramatically, I don't think will be nearly as bad in
the months ahead.
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM
[9.] MR. SEVAREID. Mr. President, the Federal Reserve Board in this system
of ours is virtually a fourth branch of Government. It is not checked or balanced
by any other branch of Government. It can turn the money tap on or off. It has
the power to virtually negate any economic recovery program that you or the
Congress, or the two of you, put forward. And a lot of people think that is what
it has been doing. Would you support any of these proposals for legislation to
change the law to make them more amenable to the whole political process?
THE PRESIDENT. My judgment is that the Federal Reserve Board needs a high
degree of autonomy. The minute we turn the central banking setup into a
political weapon, then I think our credibility for responsible monetary policy
goes down the drain.
MR. SEVAREID. But it is a political weapon now.
THE PRESIDENT. But it is autonomous. I can't call up Arthur Burns and tell
him to do this or do that, and the Congress can't unless they change the law.
Now, on the other hand, Arthur Burns does sit in on some of our economic
policy meetings. He is very helpful in his observations. And I think the record
will show the last 2 months that they-they, the Federal Reserve Board under
his leadership—have increased the supply of money very substantially.
MR. SEVAREID. Yes, but the quarterly average is pretty low yet.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the most recent figures—I think they have been pub-
lished—are very encouraging as to the money supply, and there has been a very
substantial decrease in interest rates over the last 3 or 4 months because of
responsible action taken by the Federal Reserve Board.
My feeling is that if we politicize the Federal Reserve Board, make it a tool
of the Administration or the tool of the Congress, we will lose a great deal of
integrity, which I think is vital in the management of our money supply.
MR. SEVAREID. But if stupidity should happen to go along with that integrity,
you can't do anything about it. Ought not the terms of the members be shorter,
or the Chairman's term be coterminous with the President's term, something
of that kind?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, something of that kind certainly ought to be explored.
But to make the Chairman or the members all a part of an Administration,
555
