[316]
June 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
prosecution. In the broader sense, however, if it is determined that the Central
Intelligence Agency, as an organization, has violated its charter, then, of course,
corrective action will have to be taken. And without revealing what was in the
report from the Rockefeller Commission, I believe there will be certain recom-
mendations for some legislation and some administrative action that ought to
be taken to make certain and positive that the Agency does its job and that the
rights of Americans, domestically, are well protected.
Q. I was wondering why you had the Rockefeller Commission stop short in
its work and not complete its investigation into alleged political assassinations.
Why did you not reach a conclusion in that particular area?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me say at the outset, I did not tell the Rockefeller Com-
mission that it should not proceed further. The Rockefeller Commission, on its
own, decided that it wanted to conclude its operations on the basis of the original
responsibilities given to it.
The Commission at the outset was told it should investigate allegations con-
cerning domestic violations of its charter. Subsequent to that, there were ques-
tions-I should say-raised about political assassinations. I suggested that the
Commission undertake an investigation of any domestic involvement in politi-
cal assassinations.
The Commission, after the original 90 days it was given to complete its re-
port, requested an extension for an additional time, and I gave them an addi-
tional 60 days.
Sometime in early May, the Commission decided that it wanted to conclude
its original assignment, and they decided that they should make the report
which will be released tomorrow to the public. And they have turned over to
me the material they collected concerning any political assassinations.
Q. This was a Presidential commission, of course. Do you agree with their
conclusion to stop without reaching a conclusion in this particular area?
THE PRESIDENT. I do for this reason: that the material they have collected, the
interviews, the hearings, any other material that they are giving to me, I am
turning over to the Attorney General along with other material that we are
collecting within the executive branch of the Government so that the proper
agency of the executive branch of the Federal Government will be in a position
to analyze and to prosecute if there is any need to do so.
Q. Sir, if I may press you on that just a little bit. Why aren't they the proper
agency to do that? They were assigned by you to look into the CIA and find
out what was wrong. They obviously got into something very controversial
and then all of a sudden they just stopped. Why didn't you tell them, “Go on,
792
