July 11
[395]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
you will find we have had too many peaks and valleys. What we really need
is sustained growth, and we can have it if we use the right fiscal and monetary
policies.
It is my judgment that a President has to look at the longer range. He should
not look at tomorrow or the next month. He should aim at a reestablishment
of a stable, solid foundation for the years ahead.
Excessive Federal spending has already inflicted a tremendous toll in taxes
and economic damage to the public. The roots of the problem, as most of us
know, date back many years. Too many politicians and some theorists over the
years have advocated massive spending as a cure for just about everything that
has ailed us economically in America.
In the past 15 years alone, enormous, unbelievable Federal deficits were used
to finance recordbreaking domestic spending. And too many of these expendi-
tures, as we look through the records, have produced short-term benefits for
some Americans while inflicting long-term damages on all Americans. And
we cannot and will not condone that policy.
Now, many of those programs which sought to help the poor, the elderly,
the disadvantaged—these people are now trying to cope with the inflationary
crunch of Uncle Sam's spending sprees. And this phrase became a trademark
of the Congress in the 1960's and beyond—and let me phrase it this way—
legislate first and perfect later. But, unfortunately, as some in this room know,
the lawmakers rarely, if ever, got around to perfection.
What happened is that the Federal Government has been living and dis-
pensing the Nation's treasure far beyond its means for far too long, engulfing
the economy in the flames of inflation in the process. And I think the American
people now realize that benefits cannot be created for some without imposing
costs on everybody.
The net result is that moderation and restraint—and these aren't very excit-
ing words, but they are key words in an economic lexicon. Now, some will say
they don't blow your mind. But neither will they blow your salary and savings
that you worked so hard for all of your life.
It is my judgment that the American people today want to know where they
stand, where the country stands, what the facts are. And I believe the American
people are tired of siren songs and would appreciate some simple, very straight
talk.
I believe there is a magnificence in simple economic truth, because it has
been so abused over the years-it has almost been lost. I believe that much of the
discouragement, much of the disillusionment that we have seen in the past
963
