[109]
February 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
Unfortunately, the parliamentary process has been slowed down in the Con-
gress, and the country has been the loser. We need a stimulant now, and I hope
the Congress will realize the urgency of the need for action. And I trust that
now that they have been reminded of their slowness, that they will expedite the
process.
THE OIL INDUSTRY
[6.] Q. Good morning, Mr. President. I am Dick Powers from the [Fort
Lauderdale] Sun-Sentinel. Last week, here in south Florida, George Meany
proposed the nationalization, as an ultimate solution, of the oil industry. Hereto-
fore, there have been proposals from Congress for the nationalization of health
insurance and for utilities and for the railroads. Do you see these proposals as a
reluctance on the part of the American people to tough out our economic woes
and accelerate a drift into socialism, sir?
THE PRESIDENT. I do not think the nationalization of any industry in the
United States is in our best interest, nor do I think a government monopoly
in any industry is a good answer. Without being critical of individual employees
of the Postal Service, I think the Postal Service has not been as good an answer
as we would like to the delivery of mail; we are trying to improve it. But it does
seem to me that there is a better answer to the energy problem than the national-
ization of the oil industry.
We do have to stimulate production. We do have to, through the windfall
profits tax that I have proposed, keep profits at a reasonable level. We do have
to make sure that we get away from foreign oil imports. But I honestly do not
believe that nationalization is the best answer.
OIL PRICES
[7.] Q. Mr. President, on oil-with your favoring of a minimum price
level and oil deregulation—won't you be guaranteeing to the oil companies a
revenue bonanza that is based solely on the arbitrarily high price levels that
have been set in the past year or so by the OPEC countries?
THE PRESIDENT. My energy program does not guarantee any specific price
except that we have been negotiating with other consuming nations for what
is a minimum price or a floor price.
A minimum price at a reasonable level is a way in which we can continue to
stimulate domestic production of additional oil, additional natural gas, and
other energy sources such as solar, geothermal, et cetera.
We are not guaranteeing oil companies any particular price, and if there is a
windfall profit, then the Congress has an obligation to enact my windfall profits
292
