[342]
June 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
bers of both Houses of Congress, distinguished judges, practitioners, and mem-
bers of the academic branch of the legal profession.
Certainly, the importance of the Supreme Court, the circuit courts, and the
Federal judicial system to our society and to our people cannot be overesti-
mated. We owe these courts the fullest measure of support to assure that they
function effectively. In the final analysis, our courts function for the well-being
of the citizenry. The effective, efficient operation of the judicial system is
essential to safeguard our rights and our liberties.
After extensive study, the Commission has published its thoughtful and imag-
inative recommendations for change.
I will give the Commission's recommendations serious study, and I know the
Congress and the Chief Justice will do the same. These efforts should go hand-in-
hand with a thorough review of the basic causes for the ever-increasing number
of cases being brought in the Federal courts. We should also strive to fashion
ways to reduce the volume of Federal litigation and to expedite the disposition
of cases before the courts.
NOTE: The report is entitled "Commission on Re-
vision of the Federal Court Appellate System-
Structure and Internal Procedures: Recommendations
for Change" (Government Printing Office, 244 pp.).
The Chairman and members of the Commission
presented a copy of the report to the President in a
ceremony in the Oval Office at the White House.
343
Letter Authorizing Establishment of the President Ford
Committee.
Dear Dean:
June 20, 1975
[Dated June 19, 1975. Released June 20, 1975]
I hereby authorize The President Ford Committee to solicit and receive con-
tributions and to incur expenses and to make expenditures to further my
nomination for the Office of President of the United States.
Best personal regards,
GERALD R. FORD
[Honorable Dean Burch, Chairman, The President Ford Committee, 1200 18th Street, NW., Washington,
D.C. 20036]
852
