April 25
[217]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
cern. That is why I do not talk about law and order, and why I return to the
constitutional phrase-insuring domestic tranquillity.
The overwhelming majority of Americans obey the law willingly and with-
out coercion, but even the most law-abiding among us are still human. And so it
makes ordinary common sense that we promulgate rules and that there be en-
forcement of the rules to buttress the normal inclination of most people to obey
the rules. As James Madison asked in "The Federalist," and I quote, “But what
is government itself but the greatest of all reflections on human nature? If men
were angels," said Madison, "no government would be necessary."
Since men and women are not angels, we must have the apparatus of law
enforcement. Those who prey on others, especially by violence, are very, very
few in number. A very small percentage of the whole population accounts for a
very large proportion of the vicious crimes committed. For example, in one study
of nearly 10,000 males born in 1945, it was found that only 6 percent of them
accounted for two-thirds of all of the violent crimes committed by the entire
group.
Most serious crimes are committed by repeaters. These relatively few, persistent
criminals who cause so much misery and fear are really the core of the problem.
The rest of the American people have a right to protection from their violence.
Most of the victims of violent crime are the poor, the old, the young, the dis-
advantaged minorities, the people who live in the most crowded parts of our
cities, the most defenseless. These victims have a valid claim on the rest of
society for the protection and the personal safety that they cannot provide for
themselves-in short, for domestic tranquillity.
Hardly a day passes when some politician does not call for a massive crack-
down on crime, but the problem is infinitely more complex than that. Such an
approach has not proven effective in the long haul; it is not the American style.
We need a precise and effective solution.
One problem is that our busiest courts are overloaded. They're so overloaded
that very few cases are actually tried. One study showed that in a county in Wis-
consin, only 6 percent of the convictions resulted from cases which came to trial.
According to another study, over a 3-year period in Manhattan, only about 3
percent of the persons indicted were convicted after trial.
I think this audience knows the explanation. It is plea bargaining—in many
cases, plea bargaining required by the ever-growing pressure of an increased
caseload. The popular notion that trial follows arrest is a misconception in a vast
majority of cases, and this audience will also be quick to guess one of the basic
reasons.
591
