June 19
[341]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
to prosecutors, the likelihood of swift and sure punishment for crime would be
substantially increased.
At the Federal level, last September I directed the Department of Justice to
develop and implement a program to deal with career criminals, with the
objectives of (1) providing quick identification of persons who repeatedly
commit serious offenses, (2) according priority to their prosecution by the most
experienced prosecutors, and (3) assuring that, if convicted, they receive appro-
priate sentences to prevent them from immediately returning to society once
again to victimize the community.
Programs to deal with habitual criminals will be encouraged at the State and
local levels through the use of the Law Enforcement Assistance Administration
model programs and discretionary grants already underway.
10
To illustrate the nature of this problem, let me point out that in one city over
60 rapes, more than 200 burglaries and 14 murders were committed by only
persons in less than 12 months. Unfortunately, this example is not unique.
The results of a repeat offender project recently launched in the Bronx County
District Attorney's Office, City of New York, are hopeful. The first year's ex-
perience showed a 97 percent felony conviction rate and a reduction of time in
case disposition from an average of 24 months to an average of three months.
In addition, prison sentences resulted in 95 percent of the career criminal cases
prosecuted.
A second improvement in the criminal justice system may be obtained by
diverting certain first offenders-not all, but some-into rehabilitation programs
before proceeding to trial. The Department of Justice has begun a pilot pro-
gram of this kind designed to achieve two important goals. First, it will seek
to reduce the caseloads of Federal courts and prosecutors through expeditious
treatment of offenders who are good prospects for rehabilitation. Second, it will
seek to enable the offenders who successfully satisfy the requirements of the
diversion programs to avoid criminal records and thus increase the likelihood
that they will return to productive lives.
Experimentation with pretrial diversion programs should continue and ex-
pand. However, careful efforts must be taken to prevent these programs from
either treating serious offenders too leniently, or, on the other hand, violating
defendants' rights. By coupling this pretrial diversion program with a manda-
tory term of imprisonment for violent offenders, we will make sure that offend-
ers who deserve to go to prison will go to prison. At the same time, those who
may not need imprisonment will be dealt with quickly and in a way that mini-
mizes the burden on the criminal justice system.
845
