[109]
February 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. We have been trying to strengthen the arm of the Immigra-
tion and Naturalization Service, the Department of Justice, in order to handle
in an appropriate way the illegal alien problem.
Florida has a serious problem. California has an equally serious problem.
We are trying to work with the Mexican Government, for example, primarily
out in the Western States. We are fully cognizant of the adverse impact that
illegal aliens have on employment opportunities of American citizens, but we
are trying to stop the flow in. We are seeking to send back illegal aliens as
quickly as possible under the laws of the United States.
THE 25TH AMENDMENT
[19.] Q. Mr. President, Senator Pastore is proposing that there be a special
election any time an appointed Vice President succeeds to the Presidency; that
is, if there is more than 1 year of the term remaining. Since you are the only
such person, what is your feeling about it? Would you recommend or endorse
a change in the 25th amendment?
THE PRESIDENT. I am not sure that I ought to pass judgment on the validity
of the 25th amendment. I guess I could say it worked pretty well this time.
[Laughter]
But I think it is appropriate that the Congress take another look at the 25th
amendment. It was passed, as I think most of us know, not to meet the unique
circumstances that developed in 1973 and 1974.
Perhaps this experience does require the Congress to take a look, to see
whether there is a better way or a different way where a Vice President might
be selected.
Q. Well, do you feel any handicap for not having won a Presidential election
and still holding the office?
THE PRESIDENT. The answer is no.
ENERGY AND ECONOMIC PROGRAMS
[20.] Q. Mr. President, Jim Reynolds, WIOD News, Miami. You have
stated that the Congress has been slow to act on two of the Nation's major
issues—energy and the tax cut. As a former Congressman, can you give us any
insight into why you feel the Congress is having this difficulty?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, in the failure of the Congress to act quickly enough in
reducing taxes, as I recommended, I am really perplexed, because we recom-
mended a very simple method of returning $16.5 billion to the American people
and to American business. That should have been quickly considered, acted on
298
