January 15
[28]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
protects our homeland. Fully adequate conventional and strategic forces cost
many, many billions, but these dollars are sound insurance for our safety and
for a more peaceful world.
Military strength alone is not sufficient. Effective diplomacy is also essential
in preventing conflict, in building world understanding. The Vladivostok ne-
gotiations with the Soviet Union represent a major step in moderating strategic
arms competition. My recent discussions with the leaders of the Atlantic com-
munity, Japan, and South Korea have contributed to meeting the common
challenge.
But we have serious problems before us that require cooperation between the
President and the Congress. By the Constitution and tradition, the execution of
foreign policy is the responsibility of the President.
In recent years, under the stress of the Vietnam war, legislative restrictions
on the President's ability to execute foreign policy and military decisions have
proliferated. As a Member of the Congress, I opposed some and I approved
others. As President, I welcome the advice and cooperation of the House and
the Senate.
But if our foreign policy is to be successful, we cannot rigidly restrict in
legislation the ability of the President to act. The conduct of negotiations is ill-
suited to such limitations. Legislative restrictions, intended for the best motives
and purposes, can have the opposite result, as we have seen most recently in our
trade relations with the Soviet Union.
For my part, I pledge this Administration will act in the closest consultation
with the Congress as we face delicate situations and troubled times throughout
the globe.
When I became President only 5 months ago, I promised the last Congress
a policy of communication, conciliation, compromise, and cooperation. I renew
that pledge to the new Members of this Congress.
Let me sum it up. America needs a new direction, which I have sought to
chart here today—a change of course which will: put the unemployed back to
work; increase real income and production; restrain the growth of Federal
Government spending; achieve energy independence; and advance the cause
of world understanding.
We have the ability. We have the know-how. In partnership with the Amer-
ican people, we will achieve these objectives.
As our 200th anniversary approaches, we owe it to ourselves and to posterity
to rebuild our political and economic strength. Let us make America once
45
