[276]
May 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. I am sure that my presence there, and what we intend to
say, and what we intend to indicate by our actions, will be very, very helpful
in this regard.
MR. MACNEIL. Has your handling of the Mayaguez incident, in effect, done
some of that work for you by reaffirming America's will to respond when chal-
lenged?
The President. I am sure that both domestically in the United States, as well
as worldwide, the handling of the Mayaguez incident should be a firm assur-
ance that the United States is capable and has the will to act in emergencies, in
challenges. I think this is a clear, clear indication that we are not only strong
but we have the will and the capability of moving.
MR. BRANDON. Mr. President, it seems to me that the handling of the Mayaguez
incident proved your own determined character, but not necessarily the Amer-
ican will. It was short, and it didn't need any Congressional decisions. What has
weakened the credibility of the American commitments, I think, in the eyes of
the allies are these restrictions and limitations that Congress has put on the
Presidency. And then there is also feeling that a kind of neo-isolationism is
rising in Congress. I was wondering how you would deal with this doubt in
American credibility?
The President. There has been a tendency, during and as an outgrowth of
the American engagement in Vietnam—one after another, limitations placed
on a President by the Congress.
Now, I believe there are some new indications that indicate that Congress
is taking another look, and perhaps the Mayaguez incident will be helpful in
that regard.
There were some limitations, but we lived within them. But it was rather
short, and it didn't require an extensive commitment. But there are some things
taking place in the Congress today that I think ought to reassure our allies that
the United States—the President, the Congress, and the American people—can
and will work together in an extended commitment.
Let me give you an illustration. This past week, the House of Representatives,
in a very, very important vote, defeated an amendment that would have forced
the withdrawal of 70,000 U.S. military personnel on a worldwide basis. And of
course, that would have affected our commitment to NATO. And the vote in
the House of Representatives was 311 to 95, as I recall. It was a much more
favorable vote this year than the vote a year ago.
I think this is an indication that the American people are getting out from
under the trauma of our problems in Vietnam. As a matter of fact, another
706
