March 28
[162]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
United Nations Development Program (UNDP). Our deep.involvement in the
UNDP over the years has been seen by many nations as symbolic of our com-
mitment to work through multilateral as well as bilateral channels to assist the
developing world.
In the area of security assistance, I am disappointed in the massive reduction
in funding for the Military Assistance Program. The program funds authorized
by the Congress would have been barely adequate in terms of supplying needed
military materiel to a small group of friendly countries unable to assume a
greater financial share of their security burden through credit or cash purchases.
However, the appropriation of less than half of this sum has jeopardized these
critical programs. Simultaneously cutting its appropriations for foreign military
sales credits accentuates the difficulties created by the deep cuts in the military
assistance program.
Finally, I am troubled because reductions in the overall quantity and quality
of our development and security assistance programs will occur at precisely the
time when America's assistance is vitally needed. I fervently hope that the Con-
gress will give urgent attention to the interlocking relationship of America's
present problems at home and abroad and provide future funding that will be
commensurate with our stated principles and national self-interest.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 4592, approved March 26, 1975, is Public Law 94-11 (89 Stat. 17).
162
Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual Report on the
Status of Federal Advisory Committees. March 28, 1975
To the Congress of the United States:
In accordance with the provisions of section 6(c) of the Federal Advisory
Committee Act, the report on the status of advisory committees in 1974 is here-
with forwarded.
This is the third annual report. It is organized to improve public access to
information concerning specific advisory committees and the Federal agencies
to whom they provide advice.
The White House,
March 28, 1975.
NOTE: The report is entitled "Federal Advisory
Committees-Third Annual Report of the Presi-
GERALD R. FORD
dent, Covering Calendar Year 1974" (Government
Printing Office, 150 pp.).
405
