July 12
[396]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
assure you that the facts will come out, if I have anything to say about it. But I
reaffirm what I said. As far as I know personally, there are no people presently
employed in the White House in this Administration who have a relationship
with the CIA of which I am unaware.
Q. Excuse me, sir, but who is looking into the allegations that they were
there in earlier administrations?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the press for one. [Laughter] And I applaud that.
Secondly, I assume the Congress will make some investigation. And of course,
we, in a responsible way, will find out if we can, in a responsible way, of any
such connections in the past.
RONALD REAGAN
[19.] Q. Mr. President, within the last week it became known that Governor
Reagan was starting a committee, or a committee was being started in his be-
half, looking toward the '76 campaign. And Mr. Callaway, your campaign
manager, put a good deal of distance between himself and Mr. Rockefeller.
He said he would do nothing to insure or promote Mr. Rockefeller's retention
on the ticket. I wonder if there is any connection between those two events?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think there is any connection between the two events.
We made our decision to actually and officially announce my own candidacy.
And with the appointment of Bo Callaway to be the chairman of my campaign
effort, he made some comments concerning how Vice President Rockefeller and
I will conduct our efforts in the months ahead-the Vice President seeking his
delegates, and I seeking mine.
We, of course, had no liaison with Governor Reagan and his people. They
made the judgment on timing, I assume, on their own basis.
Q. Mr. President, what I meant was, is the fear of a Reagan candidacy one
of the reasons why you are taking this unusual step of saying that Mr. Rocke-
feller is on his own to seek delegates?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I don't think there is any connection whatsoever. The
tradition has been that a President announces his candidacy for the high office,
or other candidates do, and I don't see any relationship at all between what I
have done and what Governor Reagan has done, or people have done on his
behalf, and what the Vice President's effort is.
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
[20.] Q. Mr. President, to get back to that CIA thing for just a minute, I
wondered in the analysis that you have done so far, have you been able to
977
