[375]
July 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
In fact, I still feel for the master of ceremonies at Indianapolis last year when
I attended a dinner which was, you know, one of those things. At the conclu-
sion of the program, so that we could keep our schedule, the emcee had to
ask members of the audience to stay in their seats until the Presidential party
left. But his actual words didn't come out quite that way. What he said was,
and I quote precisely: “Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes our program, but
would you please remain in your seats while the President is removed from
the hall." [Laughter]
As I said at the outset, I am delighted to be in Cleveland in the great Buckeye
State. As always, you have given me a very warm welcome, much warmer
than you do some of those Wolverines once a year. [Laughter] And I can feel
that I am among good friends.
Even though the Republican Party of Ohio and Cuyahoga County is spon-
soring this great Independence Festival Supper, I understand from very good
authority it really isn't supposed to be a political event. So, I am not going to
remind so-called political experts—ones who were saying not long ago that
Republicans were an endangered species-that there are at least 1,200 to 1,300
Republicans here tonight-alive, well, and darn enthusiastic. Thank you very
much.
And I am not going to take this particular opportunity to urge the people
of Cleveland to reelect Mayor Ralph Perk, who in his first year as mayor reduced
crime in this city by 26 percent and who has restored financial stability to this
city's government.
And tonight, I am not going to endorse the reelection of other outstanding
Republican mayors like Jack Hunter of Youngstown, John Ballard of Akron,
Stanley Cmick of Canton, and Tom Moody of Columbus.
And far be it from me to say this evening what a great job Jim Rhodes is
doing as Governor of this great State, or to compliment Jim on his outstand-
ing program to bring new jobs to Ohio through new industry, increased housing
construction, improved transportation systems, and urban renovation.
And I am not even going to mention Bob Taft, one of the most effective and
most respected Members of the United States Senate, a man who knows how
to get things done, whether it is a new national park for Ohio or reformation
of the regulatory agencies of the Federal Government.
I am not going to speak any words of praise tonight for the magnificent rep-
resentation of the people of Ohio, that which they are receiving in Washington
from Members of Congress like Bill Stanton or Ralph Regula, both of whom
920
