January 9
[25]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Rose Bowl-the University of Southern California, playing it, and the University
of Michigan, watching it on TV. [Laughter]
Seriously, I think both Woody Hayes and John McKay did a superlative job,
and if they ever want to come over to the White House for breakfast, I will
personally fix both of them the breakfast of champions.
Quite frankly, that is the way I feel about all of you. I am delighted to be here
tonight standing shoulder-to-shoulder with the men who make Saturday after-
noons come alive.
As Bob Blackman pointed out, I was a member of your great association for
about 9 years, and I have never given up, never intend to give up my interest or
concern for the coaching profession—and it is a profession, a calling worthy of
the respect and very high regard awarded to any other campus discipline on any
other university or college campus.
I happen to feel very deeply that the sensitive, thoughtful, highly skilled foot-
ball coaches of today have stood far, far too long in the shadows cast by other
members of the faculty. The role each of you play in developing both the
physical and moral muscle of your students is a very vital one. It is a role that
makes you coach, father, brother, confessor, and friend to young people at a
time in their lives when they can use all of them.
You coach, but you also motivate. You instruct, but you also inspire. You set a
schedule, but you also set an example. You are not just the big hulking men who
turn out winning football teams, you are the very perceptive leaders who can
turn uncertain youngsters into winning adults.
An easy job? Hardly. A demanding job? Certainly. A rewarding job?
Definitely. But too often we rate the performance of this job in terms of the big
game victories when it is, in actuality, in the thousands of small, unseen triumphs
that matter even far more.
What do you say to the eager 150-pound freshman who wants to play tackle?
How do you bend a direction without breaking a spirit? This, in my judgment,
is the real contribution that you make to America—to take our youth and give
them the highest standards and goals they can achieve and will want to achieve
on the practice field and in the football stadium.
In actuality, you are conducting a living laboratory, a crucible of crunch that
will make your youngsters, backfield and linemen alike, far better able to run
with the ball in later life.
So tonight, with very deep appreciation, I accept the Tuss McLaughry Award
not for myself, but let me share it with all members of the American Football
Coaches Association. You are often unsung, but in my book you will never be
unappreciated.
29
