May 21
[272]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Today, it is our turn to renew our pride in America and rededicate ourselves
to the future.
Our challenge-yours and mine and 213 million other Americans-like the
Centennial task of 100 years ago, is to create a new agenda at home and strong
policies abroad for America's third century.
We must rise above those divisions that have scarred our national life in
recent times. We must once again become one people, strong and unified in our
national purpose.
The new strength and new dynamism of the South, coupled with the cher-
ished traditions, can help America achieve this essential unity. I look to you for
leadership in forging a new destiny for America from the heritage which we
commemorate today.
I know that the spirit of liberty—so evident in North Carolina at the time
of our Revolution—will guide us in the days ahead. Those early stirrings of
patriotism and dedication to our way of life are very much with us every hour
and every day.
The South as a region and North Carolina as a State and Mecklenburg as a
county will continue in the future as they have in the past to provide inspiration
to our great Nation.
I join in working with all of you as wonderful citizens of this great region of
our country and working with all Americans in all 50 States to build a better
America together. And we can do it!
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:02 p.m. at Free-
Commission, and A. Grant Whitney, chairman of
dom Park. In his opening remarks, he referred to the Charlotte-Mecklenburg Bicentennial Committee.
Liz Hair, chairman of the Mecklenburg County
272
Remarks on Greeting Recipients of the Small Business
Awards of 1975.
May 21, 1975
Thank you very much, Mr. Powell. Tom Kleppe, my friends from the Congress,
Senators Moss and Jake Garn, and Congressman Gunn McKay:
I am extremely pleased to have the opportunity of participating in this cere-
mony today, where we are recognizing outstanding people in the field of small
business.
699
