[189]
April 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
VIETNAM CONFLICT
[5.] Q. Mr. President, in response to Mr. Kirkpatrick's [Clayton Kirk-
patrick, Chicago Tribune] question, you mentioned our policy of détente in an
affirmative way. The Chinese and Russian military aid to the North Vietnamese
has been placed at approximately $1.5 billion. My question is, does that violate
the spirit of détente, and if so, of what purpose is détente?
THE PRESIDENT. I think it is worthwhile to point out that none of the signa-
tories to the Paris accords have sought to enforce the violations (provisions)
of those accords, including, of course, the People's Republic of China and the
Soviet Union.
In the agreement that was signed in Paris in January of 1973, the United
States, as part of its agreement with South Vietnam, agreed to supply replace-
ment war materiel, to give economic aid. The Soviet Union and the People's
Republic of China, I assume, made the same commitment to North Vietnam.
It appears that they have maintained that commitment. Unfortunately, the
United States did not carry out its commitment in the supplying of military
hardware and economic aid to South Vietnam.
I wish we had. I think if we had, this present tragic situation in South Viet-
nam would not have occurred.
But I don't think we can blame the Soviet Union and the People's Republic
of China in this case. If we had done with our ally what we promised, I think
this whole tragedy could have been eliminated.
But nevertheless, we hope to and are working through the countries that are
a part or were a part of the Paris accords to try and achieve a cease-fire, and will
continue to do so.
REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
[6.] Q. On that point, you have asked for more than $700 million worth
of military aid. Now, there is some obvious psychological and symbolic reason
for simply asking, but militarily speaking, if you could get the package through
Congress and get it to South Vietnam, would it militarily do any good at this
point?
The President. I am absolutely convinced if Congress made available $722
million in military assistance in a timely way by the date that I have suggested—
or sometime shortly thereafter-the South Vietnamese could stabilize the mili-
tary situation in South Vietnam today.
498
