February 25
[108]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
energy are—the two are very unique in that they may supply energy for thou-
sands of years into the future.
Our 1976 energy program also includes an accelerated solar energy effort far
larger than anyone ever imagined several years ago. This is particularly im-
portant, I would think, down here in your great State of Florida. As a pioneer
of solar energy dating back to the 1930's, the Sunshine State can now play a
very leading role in the application of solar energy to commercial and private
buildings.
The program that we are advocating is designed to help develop technologies
for solar heating and cooling by converting solar energy to electricity, by produc-
ing power economically from the wind, and exploring the potential of other
solar techniques.
The Federal Government, your Government, already has major solar heating
and cooling experiments underway in a half a dozen States throughout the
Union. For example, the first demonstration for solar heating in a hospital
will be in a new 200-bed hospital on an Indian reservation in the State of
New Mexico. Solar heating is being utilized on an experimental basis in several
Federal buildings that are currently being constructed.
Your Government is exploring the potential for central station production
of electrical energy from solar energy sources. Just one of these stations, with
a few square miles of collectors, could some day supply the energy needs of
a city of 250,000. This technology at the present time is very expensive, and
it takes many years to develop it commercially, but we are on the way and we are
going to continue to push.
The use of geothermal energy holds a great potential. I was at Los Alamos out
in the State of New Mexico at our nuclear facility there, and some of the things
they showed in the field of geothermal energy production was unbelievable.
There are large underground hot water areas which will be the source of
significant electricity within the next 10 years, mainly in the Southwest and
the Far West.
Earlier this month in southern Idaho, drillers tapped a new hot water resource
for geothermal development. Our first efforts to extract energy from dry hot
rock, potentially the largest geothermal resource, are underway.
With Federal support, this country, as I see it, is on the road to producing
alternative automotive engines with obviously far greater fuel efficiency. And
this is over and above or beyond what I mentioned a few moments ago with
the agreement of the automotive manufacturers to increase automotive efficiency
by 40 percent in the next 5 years.
287
