March 5
[122]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
pleasure to come to these dinners—to which I have come reasonably regularly—
for the friendship and the fellowship and, quite frankly, the fun of seeing old
friends and making new acquaintances.
I am really looking forward to seeing the program tonight, and I do appreciate
the honor of your calling it, "This is Your University, Mr. President." All I can
say is, they sure didn't know it back in 1935. [Laughter]
You know, as a matter of fact, I can still remember spending a good part of
my sophomore and junior years washing dishes in the DKE house-of which
I was a proud member-and I mean washing dishes. As a matter of fact, I
washed so many dishes I was the only athlete in Michigan history who ever had
a football knee and dishpan hands at the same time. [Laughter]
As I mentioned a moment ago, I was lucky enough to play football, first on
Ferry Field and then in the stadium. And I was lucky enough to start a few
games in the football season of 1934—and that was quite a year. The Wolverines
on that memorable occasion played Ohio State, and we lost 34 to 0. And to make
it even worse, that was the year we lost seven out of eight of our scheduled
games. But you know, what really hurt me the most was when my teammates
voted me their most valuable player. I didn't know whether to smile or sue.
[Laughter]
When I look back to 1931 and bring us up to date, so many, many fine
memories come to mind.
In my freshman year, I had a job at the University Hospital. Dr. Kerlikowski,
with the help of Harry Kipke, got me the job. I was a very disinterested waiter
in the interns dining room and a very energetic waiter in the nurses cafeteria.
[Laughter] You know, the truth is, it couldn't have been better. I worked in
the interns dining room for their benefit and the nurses dining room for my
benefit. [Laughter]
Personally, I am intrigued by the differences between then and now, as well as
by the similarities. For instance, back in Ann Arbor I lived on the fourth floor of
a rooming house and my rent was $4 per week. And I shared it with a good
friend of mine from Grand Rapids. Today in Washington, that building would
be described as a townhouse. The room would be called a pad. The rent would
be $400. And you still wouldn't get enough hot water. [Laughter]
Of course, that doesn't apply to where I live now. I have only been there 7
months, and you can't believe all of the hot water I have gotten into. [Laughter]
Frankly, I just wish some of my critics could have been here tonight. I would
have liked them to know what my major in Ann Arbor was-economics. The
truth is, it shows you how little times have changed. In 1935, I got my first
317
