April 3
[166]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
166
The President's News Conference of
April 3, 1975
THE PRESIDENT. At the outset, let me express my appreciation to Mayor Pete
Wilson and the fine people of San Diego for the very warm welcome.
I also am delighted to see one or more of my former colleagues in the Con-
gress here. It is always nice to see them. And Al¹ and others who may be here,
good morning.
I have a short opening statement.
STATEMENT ON UNITED STATES HUMANITARIAN ASSISTANCE TO THE
REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
[1.] We are seeing a great human tragedy as untold numbers of Vietnamese
flee the North Vietnamese onslaught. The United States has been doing and will
continue to do its utmost to assist these people.
I have directed all available naval ships to stand off Indochina to do whatever
is necessary to assist. We have appealed to the United Nations to use its moral
influence to permit these innocent people to leave, and we call on North Viet-
nam to permit the movement of refugees to the area of their choice.
While I have been in California, I have been spending many hours on the
refugee problem and our humanitarian efforts. I have directed that money from
a $2 million special foreign aid children's fund be made available to fly 2,000
South Vietnamese orphans to the United States as soon as possible. I have also
directed American officials in Saigon to act immediately to cut redtape and
other bureaucratic obstacles preventing these children from coming to the
United States.
I have directed that C-5A aircraft and other aircraft, especially equipped to
care for these orphans during the flight, be sent to Saigon. I expect these flights
to begin within the next 36 to 48 hours. These orphans will be flown to Travis
Air Force Base in California and other bases on the west coast and cared for in
those locations.
These 2,000 Vietnamese orphans are all in the process of being adopted by
American families. This is the least we can do, and we will do much, much
more.
The first question is from Mr. George Dissinger of the San Diego Tribune.
¹ Representative Alphonzo Bell of California.
411
