[70]
February 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
NOTE: The President's message, together with the
Annual Report of the Council of Economic Ad-
visers, is printed in the "Economic Report of the
President, Transmitted to the Congress Febru-
ary 1975" (Government Printing Office, 359 pp.).
71
Remarks in Atlanta at the Annual Convention of the
Opportunities Industrialization Centers of America.
February 4, 1975
Dr. and Mrs. Sullivan, Senator Talmadge, my former colleagues in the House
of Representatives, Governor Busbee, Mayor Jackson, other distinguished public
officials, Mr. Ambassadors, OIC workers and executives:
It is a great privilege and a very high honor to have the opportunity of par-
ticipating in this very wonderful occasion today, and I thank you for the warm
and friendly welcome.
I do thank you, Dr. Sullivan, for inviting me to this convention, primarily
because I admire the job that the Opportunities Industrialization Centers are
doing in training disadvantaged Americans so they can acquire the absolutely
essential needed skills. Last year, as Dr. Sullivan indicated, I visited Reverend
Sullivan's Philadelphia for a firsthand look at the Pioneer Center. I came away
encouraged by what I saw, inspired by Leon Sullivan's enthusiasm and, I must
add, exhausted by trying to follow him up stairs three steps at a time. And I will
add, parenthetically, I got a fairly good lobbying job last year. But I must say,
in 1975 he has become more subtle. [Laughter]
You all know the success of OIC can be attributed to the personal attention
given to the social and economic problems of the untrained worker and the
high degree of local involvement. It is encouraging, extremely encouraging to
me to see businessmen from the largest corporations to the small neighborhood
store working in local communities to help solve local problems. And I know
precisely and very emphatically the job that was done in my hometown of
Grand Rapids, Michigan—and incidentally, our mayor, Lyman Parks, is one
of the 140 black mayors in the United States.
The emphasis on training skills needed in local areas has always been a part
of OIC, and that emphasis is more important today than ever in the history of
our country. In moving beyond the original goal of helping urban blacks, OIC
has wisely and very properly reached into the lives of Mexican-Americans,
Indians, and whites. OIC's creed, "We help ourselves," is not just for the disad-
vantaged American trying to improve his life, but for all of us.
178
