May 27
[281]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
interest rate of 2.5 percent. The interest rate which Germany could have ob-
tained through investment of these funds in marketable U.S. Treasury securi-
ties would, of course, have been much higher. The purchase of securities made
by the FRG pursuant to the agreement were made at times when the market
was paying just under eight percent interest. As a consequence, the FRG will
have foregone approximately $343 million in interest over the life of these
securities, Essentially this represents a budgetary gain to the U.S.
A final provision of the Amendment requires that we seek to reduce the
amount paid by the U.S. to support NATO's Infrastructure Program. NATO
recently agreed to a new five-year program (CY 1975-79) totaling $1.35 billion.
The Allies have agreed to reduce the U.S. percentage from the current official
level of 29.67 percent to 27.23 percent. The new program also includes a special
category of projects totaling $98 million which benefit only American forces
and which would normally have been funded in the U.S. budget. When this
special category is considered, the effective U.S. share is approximately 21 per-
cent. Likewise, the U.S. share of funding for the Common European Pipeline
deficit has been reduced from 36 percent to 25 percent.
The Amendment specifies that 22½ months (July 1, 1973–May 16, 1975) of
Allied balance of payments transactions can be applied against the FY 1974
deficit. The balance of payments data we have used have been based on only
the first 12 months of this period. We do not yet have complete data on Allied
procurement expenditures during the last 10½ months of the statutory period.
However, assuming that Allied expenditures in Foreign Military Sales (FMS)
and commercial accounts remain at about the same levels as in FY 1974, there
would be available an additional $1.3 billion to offset our FY 1974 expenditures.
It should be noted that the Allied financial transactions reported here do
not represent the total financial burden incurred by the Allies in support of
U.S. forces in Europe. Our Allies absorb many of our troop-related operation
and maintenance costs for facilities, building and repairing roads, and other
payments which have a total value of several hundred million dollars a year.
A good economic argument can be made that some of our balance of pay-
ments expenditures would have occurred whether or not our troops were in
Europe, and hence should not have been charged against the NATO balance
of payments account. For example, the Department of Defense purchased ap-
proximately $137 million of petroleum, oil, and lubricants (POL) in Europe
during FY 1974, mostly for our Sixth Fleet operations. The great majority of
these products were purchased from the Middle East. However, if the fleet had
been brought home, its shift to U.S. POL resources would have forced other
727
