June 24
[352]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
come into the office, that our principles and our policies, those in which we
believe, that for which we stand, that for which we work is really what most
Americans believe in.
And so, we are going to keep the course that we are on today, and that
course involves the following: a total dedication to the free enterprise system,
seeking to lift the heavy hand of government from business so that the free
enterprise system can work. One of our national magazines, in the issue that
came out this morning, has a wonderful story showing the excessive cost to
our society because of unneeded, undesirable regulation by government. And I
have a meeting tomorrow morning with 20 Members of the House and Senate,
Democrats and Republicans, trying to guide with them a way in which we can
alleviate the heavy hand of government regulation.
Secondly, we believe in fiscal responsibility, and I say this fully recognizing
that the Federal fiscal affairs in this current fiscal year and next year are most
difficult. We have had a drop in revenue because of the recession. We have had
extra expenditures because of the recession. We are the victims of some legis-
lation that continue payments regardless of certain circumstances. And the
consequence is that we have a substantial Federal deficit this year and next year.
But the biggest danger is that the Congress will add to it in a significant way.
And to live up to the principles of fiscal responsibility, we are going to keep
vetoing measures that will add to that deficit. And I think the Congress will
sustain us in trying to keep the lid on these unwise and unnecessary expenditures.
Secondly, we believe in a strong national defense posture. The record is
abundantly clear that if you are strong militarily, that is the best way to keep
the peace and the best way to ensure that we can move ahead, working with
our allies and working also with our adversaries.
So, this Administration will continue an adequate funding program for the
Army, the Navy, the Marines, the Air Force, because that is the best insur-
ance that I know for the maintenance of peace in the future.
Fourthly, we believe in local control at the State and at the local level. The
people that you elect to your municipal offices, your county offices, your State
offices, if you elect the right people, can do a better job.
As a result, we believe in what is called block grants to help to strengthen local
and State government. You can keep a more watchful eye on people at home
in your State governments, and they, as a consequence, will do a better job.
Lastly, and just as important as any of the others, we believe in freedom for
the individual. Freedom in what way? Freedom against an all-powerful gov-
ernment, freedom against mass education where every individual is educated as
865
