May 23
[276]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
As President, I have tried to convince the Congress that they ought to pass
a comprehensive energy program that would aim at conservation on the one
hand and new sources of energy on the other.
Now, I am going to make a decision in the next 48 hours as to whether or
not I will increase by $1 the import levy on foreign oil. The Congress has failed
very badly. They have done literally nothing affirmatively to solve our energy
problem.
Perhaps the imposition of the extra dollar will stimulate the Congress to meet
the problem that is important from the point of view of not only ourselves but
the consuming nations—those in Europe, ourselves, Japan. I am very disturbed,
I might say, about Congress' lack of affirmative action.
MR. BRANDON. The statement by the Shah [of Iran] that he is going to in-
crease the price again by 25 percent has not helped you in Congress, has it?
THE PRESIDENT. I think it probably has helped us, because if the price of oil
is increased and we have no defense against it, it proves the need and necessity
for the United States to have the kind of an energy program that I have
proposed.
If we had that program in place, the one I recommended to the Congress in
January, the threat of an increase in the oil price would be far less. It is the lack
of action by the Congress that puts us more and more vulnerable to price
increases by OPEC nations.
So, I hope this prospective or threatened oil price increase will get the Congress
to do something such as what I have recommended. Then we would not have
to worry about that.
MR. MACNEIL. Did you try and persuade the Shah not to raise the price of
oil, as he is quite influential in the group of OPEC nations?
THE PRESIDENT. We talked about it. He indicated that there might be an
increase. I did point out that it could have very adverse economic impacts, not
only on the consuming nations—like Western Europe, the United States,
Japan-but it could have very, very bad effects on the less developed nations,
who are more of a victim than even ourselves.
I would hope that there would be a delaying action, but in order to make
ourselves less vulnerable for this one and for other threatened increases in the
future, the United States has to have a strong energy program, an energy pro-
gram that is integrated with that of Western Europe through the International
Energy Agency. And I can assure you that we are going to keep urging and
pressuring and trying to move the Congress so that we end up with the kind of
a program that will preclude these increases.
715
