February 3
[68]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
NOTE: Black History Week, sponsored by the Association for the Study of Afro-American Life and History,
was observed February 9-15, 1975.
68
Remarks Upon Signing the Economic Report for 1975.
February 3, 1975
THIS IS the morning of good news. Let me thank everybody for joining with
me today for the signing of the Economic Report of the President, which goes
to the Congress with the report of the Council of Economic Advisers.
Neither the report of the Chairman, Alan Greenspan, nor my own is very
light reading. Yet, they both come to grips with the problems of recession, in-
flation, and our need [to adjust] to scarcer and less accessible energy supplies.
The remedies proposed for these new problems are not easy. They require
our country to take a new direction. They require prompt action by the Congress.
And from all Americans, we must ask for a perseverance and a willingness to
tolerate some very painful measures to regain good economic health.
The budget which I sent to the Congress today includes a number of under-
lying economic projections, including estimates of the changes which we expect
in the prices and in the economy. The Council of Economic Advisers will go
more fully into the details of these projections at a press briefing tomorrow.
The projections are presented as averages for the entire year in the budget.
What they do not show is that we will have turned the economy in a new and
more favorable direction well before the end of this year.
We expect an increase in total production between mid-1975 and the end of
1976 in excess of a 5-percent annual rate. This will add some 2 million workers
to the Nation's payroll over this period, so that unemployment—though still
high-will be going down.
We estimate a rate of inflation between December of 1974 and December of
1975 of a little more than 9 percent. A little less than two percentage points of
this will be due to higher energy costs, much of which will be rebated to the
economy in the form of tax cuts. We expect price increases of slightly more
than 7 percent during 1976.
While these projected figures present no rosy picture, they forecast the real
improvement we expect in the coming months.
Light reading or not, these two reports provide the underpinnings for both
the budget and for the policies which I have proposed to deal with our problems
165
