June 9
[313]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
313
Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual Report on
Aeronautics and Space Activities. June 9, 1975
To the Congress of the United States:
I am pleased to transmit this report on the activities and accomplishments of
the United States in aeronautics and space in 1974. This is in accordance with
Section 206 of the National Aeronautics and Space Act of 1958, as amended (42
U.S.C. 2476).
During 1974, the Nation's activities in aeronautics and space continued to pro-
duce significant benefits, to experiment with and develop new applications, to
increase scientific knowledge, and to advance technology. The report shows:
The use of communications satellites continued to expand as a principal
method of international communications. The first domestic privately owned
communications satellites opened a new dimension in our tele-communica-
tions systems. Satellites continued to play an essential role in national defense
activities—in communications, navigation, and other fields. Demonstration
programs tested the use of satellite systems to improve delivery of health
and education services.
Experimental uses of Earth observation satellites were tested in crop surveys,
pollution monitoring, land use planning, water resources management, and
other fields. Weather satellites continued to be our chief source of both global
and local weather data; a new geostationary satellite began continuous
observation of weather affecting the Western hemisphere.
The Skylab manned space station mission was successfully completed; it
demonstrated that human beings can survive and work well in space for
months or more at a time and provided a store of new scientific and technical
data on the Sun, Earth resources, medical effects of space flight, and other
fields. Development of the Space Shuttle progressed on schedule, and within
costs, toward the goal of a versatile reusable vehicle for routine and economical
use of space at the end of the decade. Joint preparations and training with the
Soviet Union proceeded for the 1975 Apollo-Soyuz manned docking experi-
ment. Cooperative space activities with other nations continued on the basis
of mutual benefits. Development by European nations at their expense of
the Spacelab for use with the Space Shuttle got well underway.
785
