[311]
June 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
The Committee for the Implementation of Textile Agreements will submit
to the Textile Trade Policy Group such reports and recommendations concern-
ing textile trade policy and the implementation of textile trade agreements as
the Textile Trade Policy Group may request.
The Committee for the Implementation of Textile Agreements, acting
through its chairman, will continue to supervise the implementation of rights
and obligations of the United States under textile trade agreements.
GERALD R. FORD
312
Letter to the Speaker of the House and the President of the
Senate Transmitting Proposed Legislation for United States
Participation in the Financial Support Fund of the Organization
for Economic Cooperation and Development. June 6, 1975
I AM today transmitting legislation to authorize participation by the United
States in a new, $25 billion Financial Support Fund. This Fund would be
available for a period of two years to provide short- to medium-term financing
to participating members of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development (OECD) which may be faced with extraordinary financing
needs.
The proposal for a Financial Support Fund originated in suggestions put
forward independently by the United States and the Secretary General of the
OECD as part of a comprehensive response to the economic and financial prob-
lems posed by severe increases in oil prices. Establishment of the Support Fund
has been agreed upon, subject to necessary legislative approval, by all members
of the OECD except Turkey, which has not yet signed the Agreement. The
Support Fund represents, in my view, a practical, cooperative and efficient
means of dealing with serious economic and financial problems faced by the
major oil importing nations.
A Special Report on the Fund, prepared by the National Advisory Council
on International Monetary and Financial Policies, accompanies this legislation.
I fully endorse the Council's strong recommendation for U.S. participation in
the Fund, and I urge prompt Congressional action to authorize that participation.
The financial problems arising from the oil price increases are expected to
be transitional, although the real costs imposed by those price increases will
782
