[26]
January 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
A more comprehensive program of energy conservation taxes on oil and
natural gas to reduce consumption substantially must be enacted by the Con-
gress. The revenues derived from such taxes will be returned to the economy.
In addition, my energy conservation program contains oil allocation authority
to avoid undue hardships in any one geographic area, such as New England,
or in any specific industries or areas of human need where oil is essential.
The plan prevents windfall profits by producers. There must also be volunteer
efforts to cut gasoline and other energy use.
My national energy conservation plan will urge Congress to grant a 5-year
delay on higher automobile pollution standards in order to achieve a 40-percent
improvement in miles per gallon.
Stronger measures to speed the development of other domestic energy re-
sources, such as coal, geothermal, solar, and nuclear power, are also essential.
This plan requires personal sacrifice. But if we all pitch in, we will meet our
goal of reducing foreign oil imports by 1 million barrels a day by the end of this
year and by 2 million barrels before the end of 1977. The energy conservation
measures I have outlined tonight will be supplemented by use of Presidential
powers to limit oil imports as necessary to fully achieve these goals.
By 1985-10 years from now-the United States will be invulnerable to
foreign energy disruptions or oil embargoes such as we experienced last year.
Of course, our domestic needs come first. But our gains in energy independence
will be fully coordinated with our friends abroad. Our efforts should prompt
similar action by our allies.
If Congress speedily enacts this national energy program, there will be no
need for compulsory rationing or long waiting lines at the service station. Yes,
gasoline prices will go up, though not as much as with a 20-cent-a-gallon tax.
Furthermore, the burden of the conservation taxes on oil will be shared by all
petroleum users, not just motorists.
Now, let me talk about the problem of unemployment. This country needs
an immediate Federal income tax cut of $16 billion. Twelve billion dollars, or
three-fourths of the total of this cut, should go to individual taxpayers in the
form of a cash rebate amounting to 12 percent of their 1974 tax payments—up
to a $1,000 rebate. If Congress acts by April 1, you will get your first check for half
the rebate in May and the rest by September.
The other one-fourth of the cut, about $4 billion, will go to business tax-
payers, including farmers, to promote plant expansion and create more jobs.
This will be in the form of an increase in the investment tax credit to 12 percent
for 1 year. There will be special provisions to assist essential public utilities to
32
