[54]
January 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. It appears that in the economic package that the Congress
is probably going to do it whether we agree with it or not. Isn't that right, Alan?
At least, as I read what Al Ullman is talking about, that is what is going to
happen. We think what we have proposed is sound, but this is a government
where you have the executive and the legislative acting as coequals. So, we
will do everything we can to sell our program, but we do have to end up with
what the judgment is of the Congress. I hope that there won't be too much
deviation.
Q. Mr. President, could you sign Mr. Ullman's bill?
THE PRESIDENT. I would not pass judgment here this afternoon on whether I
could or could not, but there is a reasonable similarity. Of course, that is only
his views, and he has got 36 other members on that committee, so there may be
some modification between what he is talking about and what the committee
and the Congress finally do.
I think it would be premature for me to say I would sign or would veto that
bill.
Q. Mr. President, I don't know whether you mean to be firm on the spending
side or not. You mean you would not sign any bill to increase spending, other
than for energy?
THE PRESIDENT. I think I was pretty categorical. We certainly are not going
to recommend any. And I phrased it this way: I said I will not hesitate to veto
any new spending program.
Q. Mr. President, there is a bill to raise the Federal debt limit, and attached
to that bill is a bill to suspend your tariff-raising authority. Would you veto that
bill when it comes up?
THE PRESIDENT. I was asked that in the joint leadership meeting the other day,
and I said to them—and I will say to you again—I don't think I ought to pass
judgment until I see what comes down, because it may or may not come down
in that form.
So, I see no reason to either tell them or to tell you what I might do in some
hypothetical situation. I have enough trouble making real decisions rather than
hypothetical ones.
Q. Mr. President, you were emphatic in speaking about the February import
fee increase. Do you intend to leave some room for compromise for later in-
creases, and in what possible area?
THE PRESIDENT. The proclamation includes all 3 months. I certainly intend
to stick by the proclamation.
Q. Mr. President, when you submitted your original tax program, we were
told that the increase in living cost and the fuel cost for the average family would
126
