[195]
April 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
of extremes and excess. It is that the Government will make your dreams come
true—all you have to do is file an application.
The American people never have and cannot live on promises. They, as well
as us, including myself and others in positions of responsibility—we must pro-
duce. That is the way America was made great and will keep great.
All of this raises a question, a question of utmost simplicity and yet of pro-
found significance to the American people: How long can the United States
afford to run continuous budget deficits?
All levels of government have contributed much to progress during the past
generation. But many new programs have failed, leading not only to waste but
to disillusionment and, unfortunately, despair.
We have come to a time, as I see it, where the American people will and must
take a closer look at where their money is going. The reason is simple: The
built-in momentum of the Federal budget and unanticipated other demands
have produced excessive expenditure growth rates. As I recall, the figure is about
9.4 percent per year. That is the growth rate in Federal expenditure over the
past 25 years. Unfortunately, these growth rates are not only rising faster than
current income but are absorbing—and this is the tragic thing-absorbing any
anticipated future growth.
The net result is this is no time for fiction or false promises. The American
people want to know where they stand. I believe it is time to reassess our
domestic policies. I am convinced that the people of the United States do not
know where their money is going and, just as important, why.
Let me illustrate something. This is the 1974 catalog of Federal domestic
assistance programs. I must say much of it is in fine print, so it is a very sizeable
volume involving a good many programs and a good many dollars. It only
weighs about 4 pounds, but it involves a vast bureaucracy and a tremendous
amount of potential Federal as well as local and State expenditures.
In all honesty, I say let's look at these programs. To be honest with ourselves
and those we represent, our constituents, we have to ask: Are we getting our
money's worth, and if not, why not? And if not, what can we do about it?
It is time to reexamine not only the American budget but, as I see it, the
American conscience and the basic American virtues. It is absolutely essential
at this time, more so than ever before during my political life, that we get our
house in order. Instead of more promises, the American people must ask who
will pay, who will pay for those promises.
The United States is now spending-among Federal, State, and local units
of government—hundreds and hundreds of billions of dollars for social pro-
516
