June 5
[308]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
ways to improve their operations. Among other things, we must be sure that
laws and regulations written 30 or 40 years ago do not unfairly interfere with
the need for changes in our modern-day markets. It is with this important goal
in mind that I am very pleased to have signed into law the Securities Acts
Amendments of 1975.
THE IMPORTANCE OF COMPETITION
This act will provide important new directives to the industry and its regula-
tors to insure that competition is always a prime consideration in establishing or
abolishing market rules. And it will continue to strengthen the rules calling for
high standards of financial capability and ethical behavior on the part of those
individuals and institutions which perform important market functions. (In this
regard, I understand that the legislation contains an inadvertent technical error
concerning the presence of a transfer agent as a jurisdictional basis for State or
local taxation of securities transactions. I also understand that legislation to
correct this error retroactively is being prepared and that such legislation will
receive prompt consideration in Congress. When such corrective legislation is
presented to me, I intend to sign it.)
The act seeks to insure that market participants function with the highest
degree of efficiency and that the capital markets will themselves be orderly and
accessible. The key to reaching this objective will be a new national market
system for securities. The act charges the industry and the Securities and Ex-
change Commission to work cooperatively, but in the words of the House-Senate
conferees, it is intended that "the national market system evolve through the in-
terplay of competitive forces, as unnecessary regulatory restrictions are removed."
No Government formula nor any industry system of exclusionary rules can
match the incentives and rewards for innovation and improved efficiency which
natural competition provides.
This legislation encourages greater use of available improvements in electronic
and communications technology as the basis for a fully-integrated trading sys-
tem. A system in which buyers and sellers are aware of the full range of securities
prices will help insure that artificial restrictions on competition no longer distort
the market's true expression of supply and demand. It will also help reduce the
cost of transacting trades.
The act also directs members and supervisors of securities exchanges to examine
rules which tend to limit the number and variety of participants eligible for
membership. Open competition within exchanges is just as important as com-
777
