[171]
April 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
Government spending programs. Unless we do, when tomorrow comes, the
Nation will pay a terrible price for yesterday's expediencies.
In recent years, a tendency has developed to look at America as a nation of
fragmented groups. This has produced a patchwork approach that fails to
recognize the interdependence of all Americans.
In the recent tax cut legislation, the Congress concentrated tax reductions on
the very lowest income brackets and discriminated against the majority of
middle-income taxpayers.
In my recommendations to the Congress, I proposed an across-the-board tax
reduction which would have helped all taxpayers, with special concern for the
forgotten man in the middle.
The Congress passed tax reductions that are unfairly concentrated, in my
judgment, in the very lowest income brackets. Low-income people should
indeed be helped, but not to the exclusion of the rest of the population.
This tax bill places an increasingly difficult tax burden upon the most pro-
ductive members of our society. Half of the families in this country today earn
between $10,000 and $25,000 per year. One-third have earnings in excess of
$15,000 per year, and they cover the spectrum of productive people in our society.
Teachers, craftsmen in the labor unions, secretaries—these people are vitally
important in our society. What we need—we need tax relief, but we need tax
relief that will not strip incentives from these hard-working millions, many of
them with young families that are struggling to improve their lives.
Failure to provide tax relief would effectively put a lid on the ambitions and
the enterprise and the hard work of this very important segment of Americans
as they seek, with their efforts and their brains and their dedication, to continue
up the economic ladder for the sake of their children, if not for themselves.
The middle-income taxpayer cannot continue to carry an ever-increasing
burden, an ever-increasing share of the cost of all governments. The importance
of these taxpayers in achieving economic stability deserves more attention.
The Congress took some 6 million Americans off the tax rolls. We cannot
afford, as I see it, to have this Nation divided between taxpayers on the one hand
and nontaxpayers on the other. It is my strong belief and conviction that this is
most unfair. It places an increasing burden on the middle-income taxpayers,
and there are very real dangers, as I see it, in increasing the number of Ameri-
cans who pay no taxes and contribute nothing to the support of their
government.
Now, there is a vast difference between enterprises in which we have a per-
sonal investment and those in which we do not. When we invest our own time,
444
