May 1
[232]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
8 million acres to 61.6 million acres. This action provides wheat producers with
additional target price and disaster protection.
We have also increased the 1975 crop cotton price support loan rate by 9 cents
a pound. And we recently announced an increase in the price support level for
milk, which, combined with easing feed prices, should be helpful to dairy
producers.
Within the past several days, we have completed negotiations with the Euro-
pean Community to remove the export subsidies on industrial cheese coming
here—a step that ensures that surplus dairy products will not be sold in the
U.S. market at cut-rate prices. At the same time, we have worked out arrange-
ments which enable the Europeans to continue selling us high-quality table
cheese. This solution has enabled us to keep on mutually agreeable trading
terms with our best customers for American farm exports.
The Administration has also taken action to protect our cattle producers
against a potential flood of beef imports from abroad. The Department of State
is completing agreements with 12 countries limiting their 1975 exports of beef
to this country. These voluntary export restraint agreements are intended to
keep imports subject to the Meat Import Law to less than 1,182 million pounds.
If unforeseen price deterioration requires action on my part, I will direct the
Secretary of Agriculture to make adjustments in price support loan rates for
wheat, corn, soybeans, and other feed grains. But it is our expectation that
market prices for grains will remain well above loan rates and target prices in
the coming year.
Most farmers have already made their plans and bought their seed. Many are
well into their planting season. These plans have obviously been completed
without any dependence on the provisions of H.R. 4296.
In the long haul, this bill would lead to constraints on production and result
in loss of jobs in food-related industries. It would induce farmers to grow more
cotton—already in surplus—and less soybeans needed for food. The bill would
jeopardize the competitive position of our cotton in world markets.
American farmers have responded magnificently during the past several
years to produce food and fiber for this Nation and the world. This has made
agriculture our leading source of foreign exchange. This year, despite very
trying circumstances, most farmers are again seeking full production. They
have my support for a vigorous export policy for their products. I recognize
that agricultural exports have been restrained twice in the past two years. We
have now eliminated all restrictions on exports and we are determined to do
621
