March 17
[137]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
sibility for themselves while building cooperation with each other. The chal-
lenge is also the preservation of the freedom and dignity of the human indi-
vidual throughout the world.
Just as the world's nations can no longer go it alone, neither can the American
people. Woodrow Wilson said that "what we should seek to impart in our
colleges is not so much learning itself as the spirit of learning.” Great univer-
sities that pursue truth face the challenge that confronts the entire American
people. It is whether we will learn nothing from the past and return to the
introversion of the 1930's, to the dangerous notion that our fate is unrelated to
the fate of others.
I am convinced that Americans, however tempted to resign from the world,
know deep in their heart that it cannot be done. The spirit of learning is too
deeply ingrained. We know that wherever the bell tolls for freedom, it tolls
for us.
The American people have responded by supplying help to needy nations.
Programs, both government and the voluntary agencies, could not have been
and cannot be reenacted without popular support. CARE and Catholic Relief
Services, pioneers in Food for Peace programs, are feeding over 28 million
people around the world right today. Protestant, Jewish, and other groups are
similarly involved.
At universities throughout the Nation, researchers seek answers to world
problems. Right here in Indiana, at Purdue University, scientists have made dis-
coveries in high protein aspects of sorghum, a basic food of more than 300 mil-
lion people in Asia and in Africa.
Not only the scientists at Purdue but people throughout America realize that
no structure of world peace can endure unless the poverty question is answered.
There is no safety for any nation in a hungry, ill-educated, and desperate world.
In a time of recession, inflation, unemployment at home, it is argued that we
can no longer afford foreign assistance. In my judgment, there are two basic
arguments to the contrary:
First, foreign aid is a part of the price we must pay to achieve the kind of a
world in which we want to live. Let's be frank about it. Foreign aid bolsters our
diplomatic efforts for peace and for security.
But secondly, and perhaps just as importantly, even with a recession, we
remain the world's most affluent country. And the sharing of our resources
today is the right, the humane, and the decent thing to do. And we will.
But just as we seek to build bridges to other nations, we must unite at home.
This Administration wants better communication with the academic world.
359
