June 24
[352]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
because private lenders have been cooperating with home-owners through fore-
bearance and common sense arrangements. In fact, foreclosure rates have re-
mained stable—actually, at a level lower than that experienced during the mid-
1960s.
Nonetheless, I can appreciate the desire of Congress to enact legislation, and I
will support legislation which would protect home-owners from loss of their
homes due to temporary economic hardship and which recognizes the provisions
of such relief is both a matter of concern for the federal government and the
depository institutions or other mortgagees involved.
Good housing is one of our greatest national assets, and our objective was and
is to assist in the recovery of the housing construction industry and to help get
the building trades workers back to their productive and meaningful skills. I
shall be glad to work with the Congress toward this objective.
The White House,
June 24, 1975.
NOTE: The House of Representatives sustained the President's veto on June 25, 1975.
352
GERALD R. FORD
Remarks at a Reception for Republican National Associates.
June 24, 1975
Mr. Vice President, Mary Louise Smith, Mike Carmichael, and all of you:
It is wonderful to welcome you into the East Room. As I look around the
room, I see so many, many people that I have known over a good many years
who have been consistent in the support for the Republican Party candidates
and the principles that our party stands for.
of
So, it is a great privilege and pleasure for me to welcome each and every one
you here on this occasion, which I know is another expression of your strong
belief in what we all believe in and what we intend to try and do. I just thank
you very, very much for being here.
I know that what you have done over the years has kept the party alive. It has
permitted us to flex our muscles a little bit when we had some trials and
tribulations. Let me add, you have kept the Republican Party from being an
endangered species—[laughter]—and for that I thank you very much.
As I look back over the last 9 or 10 months and see the difficulties that we
have had, I think we can now say that the Republican Party has made one
863
