January 29
[54]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
have nongovernmental action. The day that we can totally rely on what the
Government does to solve these problems, I think, just does not exist. The one
is complementary to the other. I think the American people are basically
oriented toward voluntary action, and they have done some good things. I don't
think it is helpful to disparage what people do in a voluntary way.
Q. Mr. President, what is your reading of public reaction to the program as
opposed to Congressional reaction?
THE PRESIDENT. I think people who understand the full impact, the aim, and
objective of the program generally support it. The ones who have not studied
it in its entirety and picked on something they don't like, then of course they
really attack that part and, by inference, attack the rest.
But I repeat, we have got a plan; it is going to be up there in 600 or 700 pages;
it is comprehensive; it is aimed at solving the short-range and long-range prob-
lem. And we are going to keep the pressure on. As I said a moment ago,
plagiarizing, we are not going to fiddle while energy burns. The critics have
yet to find a comprehensive plan that has any degree of comparability as to
their approach.
Q. Mr. President, at your press conference the other day you mentioned
unemployment numbers. I wonder, first, if you could give us a more precise
guess as to how high you see unemployment going and whether or not you
and your advisers are concerned by the stickiness of the number. Do you have
any prospect that unemployment may come down only very slowly right
through, perhaps, next year as well as this year?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I will make one or two comments and then let Alan
Greenspan answer in more detail. We expect a jump in unemployment in the
next reporting date, which is next week-is it?
MR. GREENSPAN. I think it is February 7, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. The latter part of next week, probably.
Unfortunately, I think unemployment figures will be high for a few months.
It does worry us. We are trying to meet it with our economic program and
various employment aids such as unemployment compensation, public service
employment, and so forth. But we are optimistic if the Congress enacts that by
the third or fourth quarters of 1975, we will start to see some encouraging
improvement.
Alan.
MR. GREENSPAN. I think that is pretty much our forecast, Mr. President.
Q. Is there a single high number you would want to give us on that?
129
