[69]
February 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
already many encouraging signs that public confidence is rallying. I urge the
Congress to join with the President in this new public confidence. Quick action
on the programs I have proposed would do more than anything else to help
assure the rapid economic turnaround that all of us seek.
I am delighted to have the opportunity of being here with you today. I hope
that each one of you, whatever your differences on some of the specifics of the
program that has been proposed, will come out of this conference united in
your resolve to come to grips with our common problems and, most impor-
tantly, to speak out for action.
Although I have submitted a plan, the United States still does not yet have
a program. This will require action by the Congress and support by the Amer-
ican people. I am confident—as we look at the problem and look at the dangers
and see what has to be done between the Congress, the American people, and
the President-we can solve the problem.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:04 p.m. in the
Phoenix Room at the Hyatt Regency Hotel. He was
introduced by William J. Baroody, Jr., Assistant to
the President for Public Liaison.
70
Annual Message to the Congress: The Economic Report
of the President. February 4, 1975
To the Congress of the United States:
The economy is in a severe recession. Unemployment is too high and will
rise higher. The rate of inflation is also too high although some progress has
been made in lowering it. Interest rates have fallen from the exceptional peaks
reached in the summer of 1974, but they reflect the rate of inflation and remain
much too high.
Moreover, even as we seek solutions to these problems, we must also seek
solutions to our energy problem. We must embark upon effective programs to
conserve energy and develop new sources if we are to reduce the proportion of
our oil imported from unreliable sources. Failure or delay in this endeavor will
mean a continued increase in this Nation's dependence on foreign sources of oil.
We therefore confront three problems: the immediate problem of recession
and unemployment, the continuing problem of inflation, and the newer prob-
lem of reducing America's vulnerability to oil embargoes.
These problems are as urgent as they are important. The solutions we have
172
