[172]
April 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
172
Remarks on Greeting Students Participating in the
CLOSE-UP Program. April 8, 1975
LET ME say just a few words and make an announcement so that what I say
does not conclude the opportunity that we will have to get acquainted.
After a few remarks, I thought it would be best if I had an opportunity to
shake hands with each one of you. And therefore, I am asking all of you at the
conclusion of my remarks to come through the Oval Office, and I will shake
hands with every one of you.
Well, as I understand it, there are some 600 young people from two of my
favorite cities. Naturally, I am a little prejudiced on behalf of Grand Rapids,
Michigan, but Atlanta is a great community. I have always enjoyed visiting
Atlanta, and I know some wonderful people from there. I know all of you are
of the same caliber of those that I have met and those that I know and enjoy
from Atlanta.
I think CLOSE-UP is a great program. I know how much all of you have
done on an individual and a collective basis to make it possible for you to come
to Washington to see close-up how your Government works.
I am convinced as I look in your faces, know of your records, that all of you
have the creativity, the imagination, the dedication, and the desire for involve-
ment to make this country an even better place in which to live.
You as individuals and you as a group here this morning are indicative of
the young people of America today.
I have great faith in your generation. I have faith that you will take the prob-
lems that we don't solve and actually come up with solutions so that the America
of tomorrow will be a better place for all of you and all of your children.
We have a great country. We have some problems both at home and abroad.
We want jobs for Americans—young people, old people, and all other people—
and we are going to find an answer to the economic problems we have today.
It is going to be a little tough for a while, but to show my deep personal
concern, I have asked the Congress for $412 million so that roughly 800,000
young people this summer will have meaningful employment. This is important.
And I signed the tax bill that will help stimulate the economy. I am going
to insist that the Congress act responsibly in the handling of financial affairs so
we don't go from the success we have had in moderating inflation to a revival
448
