[160]
March 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
|
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters addressed
to the Honorable Carl Albert, Speaker of the House
of Representatives, and the Honorable Nelson A.
161
Rockefeller, President of the Senate. The text of the
draft legislation was included as part of the release.
Statement on Signing the Foreign Assistance and Related
Programs Appropriations Act, 1975. March 27, 1975
I HAVE signed H.R. 4592, the Foreign Assistance and Related Programs Appro-
priations Act, 1975, with considerable misgivings. The considerable reductions
in overseas assistance programs—which the Congress authorized only 3 months
ago—could prove detrimental to American interests at home and abroad.
The Administration sought appropriations that would reflect the same spirit
of constructive compromise that characterized our cooperative efforts in Decem-
ber. I continue to believe that the interests of the United States in an increasingly
interdependent community of nations require our purposeful and responsible
participation. Such participation is impossible if the Administration's best esti
mates of a balanced foreign assistance program are subjected to reductions of
these drastic dimensions.
I am disappointed that harmful cuts were inflicted in both the development
and security assistance sectors. Interdependence applies not only to the present
political and economic realities of America's role in the global community but
also to the various modes of foreign assistance which we employ in our foreign
policy. Programs of a humanitarian or developmental nature cannot be produc-
tive if our friends and allies are unable to defend themselves.
In the areas of humanitarian and development assistance, the $200 million
reduction in food and nutrition funds renders our efforts to alleviate world
hunger all the more difficult. The significant reduction in population planning
funds will hamper initiatives related to this important factor in the long-term
global food and health situation. I deeply regret the action of the Congress in
reducing the request for Indochina postwar reconstruction funds by over one
half-from $939 million to $440 million. At this crucial time, our friends in
Vietnam and Cambodia are under heavy attack on the battlefield and must
cope with enormous refugee problems.
I am also disappointed that the request for our voluntary contribution to
international organizations and programs has been severely reduced. The impact
of this reduction will be felt in the lessening of our financial support to the
404
