[137]
March 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
potential croplands, yet there are insufficient farmer incentives in many coun-
tries, shortages of fertilizer, high fuel costs, and inadequate storage and dis-
tribution systems.
The answers to the world food problem are to be found in interdependence.
We can and will help other nations. But simplistic paternalism may do more
harm than good. Our help must take the form of helping every nation to help
itself. And we will.
I am particularly concerned about the problem of fair distribution. America
believes in equality of opportunity. This Nation provides a showcase of change
in providing better nutrition, education, health to more and more people,
including those who can least afford it. Now, some nations have made excellent
use of our assistance to develop their own capacities. Other governments are
still struggling with the issue of equality of opportunity and fair distribution
of life's necessities.
Good world citizenship requires more than moralizing about the role others
should take. It requires each nation to put its own house in order. Good Ameri-
can citizenship requires more than moralizations about what is wrong with the
United States. It requires personal involvement and action to bring about
change. It requires voting and organizing and challenging and changing with
the flexible and dynamic American political process. Our system, by any stand-
ard, works and will work better, and you can be a part of it.
The developing nations of the world are increasingly successful in bringing
prosperity to larger numbers of their own people. In fact, the assistance we
have provided these nations is not just a one-way street. Thirty percent of U.S.
exports are purchased by these developing nations, thereby obviously con-
tributing to a better life for their people and jobs for ours.
In cases where countries have the means, let them join in sharing with us as
they should. Some have helped. Others have not. We led the way, and we will
not shirk from future burdens. But all nations must cooperate in developing
the world's resources. We extend the hand of partnership and friendship to
make a better world.
Another challenge facing the developing nations, as well as other nations, is
to realize the need for peaceful accommodation with neighbors. An inter-
dependent world cannot solve disputes by threat or by force. People now and in
the future depend on each other more than they sometimes realize. For example,
we in America import between 50 and 100 percent of such essential minerals as
cobalt, bauxite, nickel, manganese, and others.
The challenge, as I see it, is for America and all other nations to take respon-
358
