April 24
[212]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
I know there are some people here from Michigan. I don't recognize them
without my glasses on—[laughter]—but I do think that your coming down here
on an annual basis is a very important function, and I look forward to seeing
you, as Mrs. Ford does, in the State Dining Room when we get through.
I do hope that you have had a productive and enjoyable time as a part of your
31st annual conference in the Nation's Capital, and I would like to take this
opportunity, as other Presidents have done, to express my very deep gratitude
and appreciation for what the Advertising Council has done over the years in
the service of our country.
All of you know how much has been contributed by the Advertising Council
in one project or many projects over the years, both in times of economic pros-
perity, economic adversity, and in other crises involving our Nation's best.
Just to cite a couple that I am familiar with: the Savings Bond drive, the
forest fire prevention effort, the drug abuse information program, the ACTION
volunteer service program—these are the best illustrations, I think, of what you
have done and the contributions that you have made. But by no means are they
the limit of what the Advertising Council has done in the best interests of our
country.
As I said in my State of the Union Message in January, it is an urgent need
for the country to mobilize, and I quote here, “the most powerful and creative
industrial nation that ever existed on this Earth" if we are to meet the problems
that are bothering us as people and as a country. We had, at that time—and we
have today—the problem of inflation, the problem of unemployment. We have
a distressed economy. But we are beginning to see some sun coming through
some of the dark clouds, and the contributions that the Advertising Council
has made are helpful in convincing the American people that we are a great
country, that we can meet adversity, that we will be successful.
So, I hope that despite the difficulties we face, the difficulties at home, that
through a positive program, which the Advertising Council is so skillful in
projecting, that the American people will regain the confidence that is needed,
the confidence that is essential.
I know some of the news media-and I am not being critical—but we do
see in the newspapers, we do see on television, we do hear on radio some bad
news. But I think there is a need also for us as leaders in this country, those in
government and those in the private sector, to talk about the good things. There
are many, many good things for us to project. This kind of an affirmative
effort will be very helpful in restoring the confidence that is essential as we
move ahead.
577
