February 21
[103]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
embarrassing than having your wife tell you to pull in your stomach when you
already have. [Laughter]
I think it is especially fitting this evening to recall the words and the deeds
of the Father of our Country. Two hundred and forty-three years ago tomor-
row—at Wakefield on Pope's Creek in Westmoreland County in the great State
of Virginia-George Washington was born.
America esteems George Washington because he was not only our first Presi-
dent but, as ROA has noted, he was our first Reserve officer as well.
Washington's qualities as a military man and the builder of peace personified
the finest dimensions of American character. Yes, George Washington still
lives in the spirit of the men and women of organizations like ROA.
As general and later as President, he faced great challenges and seemingly in-
surmountable odds. The Congress he served as the Continental Army's com-
mander-in-chief lacked decisive leadership. Inflation was rampant. Funds to
equip the Army were extremely short. Washington's troops even went without
pay. Supply problems were incredible. Britain ruled the seas. Washington was
forced to retreat from one battle to another for much of the war-to fight an-
other day. But he won the last battle, which is, of course, the one that counts.
I think that is why Washington lives: his iron will, his dignity, his personal
example-to the patriots of his day and of ours. In fact, this plain patriotism
marked him for immortality. His incredible perseverance and tenacious en-
durance assured our independence.
Today, we are called upon to exhibit that same spirit which carried Wash-
ington and his Nation through some of its darkest days. It is imperative that we
maintain a worldwide military balance. Yet, by some, we are being told that the
price that is asked is too high.
Since I am speaking of defense and the cost for that preparedness, let me say
a word about the defense budget. As a result of Congressional actions and infla-
tion, defense spending in 1976—measured in real terms-will be more than one-
third below the peak Vietnam war level and about 20 percent below the pre-
Vietnam level.
As a percentage of total government spending—that is, Federal, State, and
local-real defense outlays amount to about 17 percent, the lowest proportion
since 1950-25 years ago. Since fiscal year 1968, the active duty strength of the
Army has been cut in half. Our Navy will drop below 500 ships in the active
fleet in the next fiscal year-the lowest level in more than 30-some years.
I hope that we will tell these facts to our friends and neighbors all over
the country, because unfortunately too many of those that we live with in our
271
