[71]
February 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
all able to take advantage of. And we were able, because of the availability, to
use this surplus when their sources were disrupted. Unfortunately, this sur-
plus vanished, and as a consequence, the United States today imports more than
one-third of its oil from other nations. Unless we act, by the mid-1980's that
dependence on imported oil will amount to more than one-half of the oil we
use in America.
It is my judgment that this trend must stop, because among other reasons, we
cannot afford the $24 billion we sent out of the country last year to pay for
foreign oil imports. That outflow represents not only dollars but jobs. If the
present trend continues, more than 10 percent of the national employment and
output would be subject to decisions of countries whose national interests might
not match our own.
The more oil we import, the more damage another embargo would do to
our economy. For instance, industries forced into cutbacks by the lack of fuel
would in turn be forced into laying off workers-perhaps, unfortunately, many
of your trainees. It is tragic but, unfortunately, true that workers hired last are
usually the first to go in such a crisis.
Another embargo could or might cripple our economy, making us much
more vulnerable not only economically but in the field of national defense as
well. In short, we are not really talking about whether to act, but how to act.
The longer the debate, the greater the delay. The longer the delay, the greater
the problem.
Obviously, our national vulnerability is aggravated as America procrastinates.
I, for one, will not "fiddle while energy burns," if I might quote the Christian
Science Monitor.
There is on one-shot, painless answer to the complex energy problem that
faces all 213 million Americans. It will not be sufficient to reduce oil consump-
tion unless we also encourage domestic oil production. These measures must be
accompanied by a drive to get maximum efficiency out of all the energy that we
use and in a national search for new and better energy sources.
When I see or read some of the proposals that come from my friends on
Capital Hill, I am sometimes reminded of the difference between washing a
car on the one hand and having it tuned up on the other. Washing the car will
make it very shiny, but it will not make it run any better. Some proposals do look
shiny until you examine them in detail and in depth. But even if they are shiny
on the outside, in most cases they will not make the car run any better.
Now, one of those shiny solutions that some have advocated-and I do not
180
