January 6
[21]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
21
Memorandum of Disapproval of a Bill To Increase Federal
Civilian Travel Expense Allowances. January 6, 1975
[Dated December 31, 1974. Released January 6, 1975]
I HAVE withheld my approval from S. 3341, the "Travel Expenses Amend-
ments Act of 1974."
This bill would raise the maximum per diem allowance and mileage rates
for civilian Government employees traveling on official business. I endorse this
proposal. Unfortunately, a provision was added to the bill which would establish
a rigid system of mileage reimbursement to the disabled veteran—with no dis-
cretionary authority for payment of a lesser amount where justified when the
veteran was authorized to travel for treatment.
This provision assumes that there are great similarities in the travel situations
of Veterans Administration beneficiaries and Federal employees who are away
from home on Government business. This is not the case, however. Generally,
a short span of time and distance is involved in VA beneficiary travel to a facility
for vocational rehabilitation, counseling and health care, while Government
employees may be traveling for days or weeks at a time. The employee per diem
is designed to pay for necessary living expenses during this period, including
those of lodging and meals.
Under this bill, Government employees using their privately owned vehicles
may be reimbursed at the minimum 15¢ per mile, or at a rate comparable to the
cost to the Government if the employee used a Government-owned vehicle.
This flexiblity would be continued for Government employee travel under the
bill passed by the Congress. However, such management flexibility would not be
applicable to travel of VA beneficiaries. The result would be the required pay-
ment of unwarranted mileage rates that would add an estimated $25 million a
year to the VA budget.
The Administration will ask the 94th Congress for a new bill to raise the
maximum per diem and mileage rates for Federal employees which have been
inadequate for some time. Many Federal employees who are required to travel
in connection with their work have suffered considerable out-of-pocket expenses
in recent years. This should be rectified as soon as possible.
The White House,
December 31, 1974.
GERALD R. FORD
21
