[22]
January 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
22
Remarks at the Annual Honors Luncheon of the National
Collegiate Athletic Association. January 7, 1975
Dr. Chapman, Art Linkletter, distinguished honorees, ladies and gentlemen:
At the outset, let me congratulate John, Pat, Randy, Jarrett, and Tony for
their outstanding athletic record and their superb achievements in the field of
academic standing. And I wish each and every one of you the very best as you
begin your career on behalf of yourself and your country.
And may I say to Bob Folsom, Billy Jones, Bill Keating, Ralph O'Brien, and
Captain Ryan the very best to you for what you have done, the records you have
made, and I wish you, along with the others, the very, very best.
Dr. Chapman, may I most sincerely thank you for this award and for the
good will and the good wishes that it represents. It will always occupy a very
honored position in my office, in my life, and obviously, in my memories. I am
most grateful.
I want you to know that I feel very much at home here today, because if you
stop to think about it, the athletic director of any college and the President of the
United States have a great deal in common: we both need the talent; we both
need the cooperation of others if we are going to succeed; we both get a lot more
criticism for the losses than we get credit for the wins; we both buy aspirin by
the six-pack; and we both have a certain lack of performance [permanence] in
our jobs. [Laughter]
As one coach put it to me--I was talking to one of them recently—he didn't
so much mind the fact that his name on the office door was written in chalk, it
was that big, wet sponge that was hanging beside it. [Laughter]
But I am sure I don't have to tell any of you, in this audience particularly, the
problems of being an athletic director or head coach. For instance, I see my
good friend Bear Bryant¹ down here. I was talking to Bear and he said, “We
both had the very same experience on New Year's Day." I said, "How is that
possible? I was skiing and you were at the Orange Bowl." He said, "That is what
I mean. We both hit the top, and after that it was all downhill." [Laughter]
You know, I think Alabama played a superb ball game, but Notre Dame just
seemed to have something a little extra. You could tell, as I watched it anyhow,
that Notre Dame was feeling pretty confident. I heard later they brought in
Earl Butz to give the blessing. [Laughter]
1
¹ Head coach of the University of Alabama football team.
22
