[388]
July 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
388
Special Message to the Congress Proposing Oil Pollution Control
Legislation. July 9, 1975
To the Congress of the United States:
I am transmitting today proposed legislation entitled the "Comprehensive
Oil Pollution Liability and Compensation Act of 1975.”
This legislation would establish a comprehensive and uniform system for
fixing liability and settling claims for oil pollution damages in U.S. waters and
coastlines. The proposal would also implement two international conventions
dealing with oil pollution caused by tankers on the high seas.
I consider this legislation to be of high national importance as we seek to
meet our energy needs in an environmentally sound manner. Those energy
needs require accelerated development of our offshore oil and gas resources and
the increased use of tankers and deep water ports. This proposal would provide
a broad range of protection against the potential oil spills necessarily associated
with these activities.
In recent years, we have taken significant steps to limit and control oil pollu-
tion in the waters of the United States. Yet, in 1973 alone, there were 13,328
reported oil spills totalling more than 24 million gallons. One-third of the oil
spilled is from unidentified sources, where compensation cannot be obtained
under existing law. The ability of claimants damaged by spills to seek and
recover full compensation is further hampered by widely inconsistent Federal
and State laws. Various compensation funds have been established or proposed,
resulting in unnecessary duplication in administration and in fee payments by
producers and consumers.
This legislation would help protect our environment by establishing strict
liability for all oil pollution damages from identifiable sources and providing
strong economic incentives for operators to prevent spills. Equally important,
the bill will provide relief for many oil-related environmental damages which
in the past went uncompensated. For example, State and local governments will
be able to claim compensation for damages to natural resources under their
jurisdiction.
This legislation would replace a patchwork of overlapping and sometimes
conflicting Federal and State laws. In addition to defining liability for oil spills,
it would establish a uniform system for settling claims and assure that none will
go uncompensated, such as in cases where it is impossible to identify the source
944
