January 24
[46]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
46
Remarks at a Briefing for Members of the Radio-Television News
Directors Association. January 24, 1975
LET ME express my appreciation to Jim Lynn and Frank Zarb and Mike Duval
and others who have been here. They know the subject matter extremely well.
They were my important advisers in the process of working out the economy
program and the energy program, and they are going to be working with me
and explaining the justification and the details of the several plans as we move
down in the months ahead to get some action in the Congress on both plans.
It is a privilege and a pleasure to be here, to meet with the news directors. I
had the great pleasure—I think back in 1968, following the election—of making
a speech to your convention in Los Angeles when my good friend at that time,
Bill Roberts, was either incoming or outgoing president of your organization.
Bill has been with me on my staff when I was Vice President and is now, of
course, with me, on the staff under Ron Nessen, as President.
I am obviously delighted to have an opportunity to say a few words on the
programs that I have proposed to the Congress. I think the success in the
implementation of those plans through the Congress depends to a very large
extent on the understanding and the cooperation of the American public.
And in my judgment, the more information the public receives on what I
have proposed in these two very important areas, the better chance they have
of being implemented, not only in the Congress but through the efforts of the
American people. Because of the great influence of the electronic media, your
role in giving the facts to the American people is an especially vital one.
You may have heard or read the remarks that I made over national television
a week ago Monday night and followed by the State of the Union on Wednesday
of the same week, so I assume that in many details you are fully informed. Some
of the broader background, of course, will be explained or has been explained
by the three that are on the platform or others who have been here.
There are some very crucial parts of the program that I would like to make a
comment or two on: the tax rebate, the increase in the oil import tariffs, and the
proposed ceiling on increases in Government wages and social security and other
benefits.
These three are only part of a much more complex design for pulling the
Nation out of the economic doldrums and the energy crisis. Unfortunately, we
are in a status of economic doldrums, and we do have an energy crisis.
109
