[89]
February 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
If this Congress simply rejects these proposals without coming forward with
good and timely alternatives, an unthinkable deficit will result and there will be
no mistaking where the responsibility lies.
NOTE: H.R. 1589 became law on February 20, 1975,
upon expiration of the 10-day period allowed for
Presidential action. As enacted, H.R. 1589 is Public
Law 94-4 (89 Stat. 6).
90
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session at a Meeting
of the New York Society of Security Analysts in New
York City. February 13, 1975
Mr. Carlson, Senator James Buckley, Attorney General Lefkowitz, members of
the New York Society of Security Analysts, ladies and gentlemen:
First, let me express my deep appreciation for the opportunity of being here
today. In the last week, while the Congress has been in recess, I have been to
Atlanta, to Houston, to Topeka, Kansas, and now in the lower end of Manhattan.
I am looking forward to equal opportunities in the several weeks ahead to tell
a story that I think has to be told, whether it is in the South, the West, the great
State of New York, or elsewhere. And with your indulgence, I would like to
make a point or two on something that I feel very strongly and very deeply
about.
THE NATION'S ECONOMY
[1.] I understand there have been a very great many rumors going on around
this town about the reason for my visit to your organization. And before I begin,
I would like to deny one of them. There is absolutely no truth to the rumor that
I have come here to deliver CARE packages from Alan Greenspan. [Laughter]
It is a great honor and a privilege to be speaking to your society here today,
because in many, many ways we have shared the same problems. But we have
also shared the same hopes and a basic optimism. Looking to the future, I am
confident that you, in your portfolios, and me, in the polls, have seen our lows for
the year. [Laughter]
Of course, I realize that not everyone shares that optimism. Last Sunday, my
good friend George Meany was on network television ยน to announce that the sky
was falling in, and I have to admit that some of the economic forecasters, some
of my own advisers have been strong on clouds and weak on silver linings.
1
ยน The AFL-CIO president had appeared on CBS News' "Face the Nation" on February 9, 1975.
238
