[243]
May 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. I'm surprised myself that there is any skepticism. I know my
intention; I have said it repeatedly, as you have indicated. I intend to be a candi-
date. I believe that I have the best opportunity to solidify the Republican Party,
getting strength from both the right as well as the left within the Republican
spectrum and to put on a good campaign against the individual that the Demo-
cratic Party nominates.
There should be no skepticism about my intention. I will be at the proper
time a candidate in a legal sense, and no one should feel otherwise.
Q. Mr. President, if I could follow that up, sir. Will you this year be going
out and speaking at Republican gatherings, doing the kind of political things
that Presidents often do in the year before they run for election?
The President. I undoubtedly will make an effort to help the Republican
Party. I think that is a proper function for a President. I did it a week or so ago
for the Republican Party in the State of Virginia, and I will do similar activities
in the future. But that effort will be aimed at helping the party. We need a
strong two-party system, and I have a responsibility to try and help the Repub-
lican Party.
Miss McGrory [Mary McGrory, Washington Star-News], may I congratulate
you on your Pulitzer Prize, and I am delighted to recognize you.
CLEMENCY PROGRAM
[5.] Q. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
I was wondering if, now that the war is over for everybody and we are
admitting many thousands of Vietnamese, including, we are told, some young
men who did not obey their country's draft laws, have you reconsidered your
position on amnesty towards young Americans?
The President. Miss McGrory, about 6 months ago, I initiated a program
under former Congressman Charles Goodell and a group of eight others to
grant relief, or amnesty to some 120,000 individuals who were either deserters
or did not comply with the Selective Service laws.
As I recollect, up to a week or so ago, approximately 30,000 out of that group
had applied. I assume that most of them will have a change in their status. I
hope so. And therefore, I have taken, I think, a step that was right. It is a good
program, and I just wish that more had taken advantage of it.
At the present time, we are in the process-or they, the Commission are in the
process of handling the applications. I hope they will expedite and be very gen-
erous in their consideration of the records of those who have applied.
There is always a chance in the future if the facts justify it.
644
