[329]
June 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
solid, conventional fighting force and for strong and ready infantry soldiers,
such as I see here today.
In today's world, as the world of George Washington, weakness is a provoca-
tion to aggression. It took strength to win our freedom. It will take strength to
keep it and to preserve the peace. The American soldier has paid the price of
freedom for countless years and on countless battlefields throughout the world.
For my part, I will do everything I can to see that our service men and women
continue to receive the recognition and the respect that is their due. They have
earned it. And I will continue and maximize my effort to work with the Con-
gress to keep our Armed Forces supplied with the best and the most modern
weapons, training, and equipment in the world today.
In the short time that I have been here at Fort Benning, I have seen and felt
the pride and the vitality of the modern volunteer soldier. Last week I had the
privilege to fly to West Point to give the graduation address. My old friend and
former colleague in the Congress, Secretary Callaway, was along then as he is
today. I asked Bo, while we were in Air Force One, how the all-volunteer force
was doing. Well, it is a good thing it was a short flight—[laughter]—because
when Bo gets talking about the success of the all-volunteer Army, he just won't
quit. But I can see here today why Bo is so excited, and I am glad to share that
enthusiasm.
From my days in the Congress, I can well remember the spirited debate and
the concern expressed over the establishment of an all-volunteer Army. An all-
volunteer Army of 782,000 soldiers was considered by many as impractical at
best and impossible at worst. I can vividly remember one of my Congressional
colleagues saying, "The only way to get good volunteers . . . is to draft them."
Well, as so often happens, the doubters were wrong. Today's Army is not
only an army of volunteers; it is most importantly an army of winners, and
we are proud of them. It is truly representative of all of the American people.
As a matter of fact, the Army is attracting better educated, better qualified,
higher skilled young men and women into its ranks than ever before. And
most importantly, from what I see here today and have observed elsewhere, this
new Army has kept intact that esprit de corps which 200 years of history and
tradition have instilled.
Seeing so many flags proudly flying here reminds me of the fact that, besides
being an important anniversary of the Army, today is also Flag Day. As I
travel across America, I am proud to see that more and more people are dis-
playing flags in their yards, on their cars, their places of business. Perhaps the
spirit of the Bicentennial has caught on.
816
