[53]
January 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
CAMBODIA
Our objective in Cambodia is to restore peace and to allow the Khmer people
an opportunity to decide freely who will govern them. To this end, our im-
mediate goal in Cambodia is to facilitate an early negotiated settlement. The
Cambodian Government has repeatedly called for talks without preconditions
with the other Khmer parties. We have fully supported these proposals as
well as the resolution passed by the United Nations General Assembly calling
for early negotiations among Khmer parties.
Regrettably, there has been no progress. In fact, the Communists have in-
tensified hostilities by attacking on the outskirts of Phnom Penh and attempt-
ing to cut the land and water routes to the capital. We must continue to aid
the Cambodian Government in the face of externally supported military at-
tacks. To refuse to provide the assistance needed would threaten the survival
of the Khmer Republic and undermine the chances for peace and stability in
the area.
The Cambodian Government forces, given adequate assistance, can hold their
own. Once the insurgents realize that they cannot win by force of arms, I
believe they will look to negotiations rather than war.
I am, therefore, proposing:
—Legislation to eliminate the current ceilings on military and economic
assistance to Cambodia, and to authorize the appropriation of an additional
$222 million for military aid for Cambodia, and
—An amendment to the fiscal year 1975 budget for the additional $222
million.
To provide the assistance necessary, the present restrictions on our military
and economic aid to Cambodia must be removed and additional money pro-
vided. The $200 million in military assistance currently authorized was largely
expended during the past six months in response to the significantly intensified
enemy offensive action. In addition, I have utilized the $75 million drawdown
of Department of Defense stocks authorized by Congress for this emergency
situation. Since the beginning of the Communist offensive on January 1, am-
munition expenditures have risen and will exhaust all available funds well
before the end of this fiscal year. To meet minimum requirements for the
survival of the Khmer Republic, I am requesting an additional $222 million
in military assistance and the elimination of the present $200 million ceiling on
military assistance to Cambodia. I am also requesting elimination of the $377
million ceiling on overall assistance to Cambodia. This is necessary to enable
122
