[26]
January 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
programs that Congress sends to me. Many proposed Federal spending programs
are desirable and have had my support in the past. But they cost money—your
tax dollars. Plainly, it is time to declare a 1-year moratorium on new Federal
spending programs.
I need your support in this. It is vital that your representatives in Congress
know that you share this concern about inflation.
I believe the Federal Government ought to show all Americans it practices
what it preaches about sacrifice and self-restraint. Therefore, I will insist on a
5-percent limit on any Federal pay increases in 1975, and I will ask Congress to
put the same temporary 5-percent ceiling on automatic cost-of-living increases
in Government and military retirement pay and social security.
Government alone cannot bring the cost of living down, but until it does start
down, Government can refrain from pushing it up. For only when the cost of
living comes down can everybody get full value from a pension or a paycheck.
I want to hasten that day.
Tonight I have summarized the highlights of my energy and my economic
programs. They must go hand-in-hand, as I see it.
On Wednesday I will spell out these proposals to the Congress. There will
be other recommendations, both short-term and long-range, to make our pro-
gram as fair to all as possible.
I will press for prompt action and responsible legislation. The danger of
doing nothing is great; the danger of doing too much is just as great. We can-
not afford to throw monkey wrenches into our complex economic machine just
because it isn't running at full speed.
We are in trouble, but we are not on the brink of another Great Depression.
Our political and economic system today is many times stronger than it was
in the 1930's. We have income safeguards and unemployment cushions built
into our economy. I have taken and will continue to take whatever steps are
needed to prevent massive dislocations and personal hardships and, in particular,
the tragedy of rising unemployment.
But sound solutions to our economic difficulties depend primarily on the
strong support of each one of you. Self-restraint must be exercised by big and
small business, by organized and unorganized labor, by State and local govern-
ments as well as by the Federal Government.
No one will be allowed to prosper from the temporary hardships most of us
willingly bear, nor can we permit any special interests to gain from our common
distress.
To improve the economic outlook we must rekindle faith in ourselves.
34
