April 26
[219]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
1
I just thank you for the kind thoughts and the prayers, because I need your
help, not just for me but for all of our fellow Americans. We have a great obliga-
tion to them because we want America not only a leader in the world but a
country that gives to all of our citizens opportunity and blessings that none of
us have had in the past.
I say to you, thank you for the opportunity just to say hello and to be here.
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:30 p.m. in the
Commonwealth Room at the Marriott Twin Bridges
Hotel to participants in the 22d mid-Atlantic re-
gional conference of the sorority.
219
Remarks at a Republican Party Reception in Alexandria,
Virginia. April 26, 1975
Thank you very much, Governor Godwin. Senator Bellmon, Senator Bill
Scott and I understand Senator Harry Byrd is here, or was here—the Repub-
lican Members of the House of Representatives-and you have an outstanding
delegation—the members of the State legislature, your fine Lieutenant Gov-
ernor, Dick Obenshain:
It just seems to me that the State of Virginia under Governor Godwin, under
the mantle of the Republican Party and its representation both in Washington
as well as in your State capital is in the best of hands, and I compliment you
very, very much.
I am here for a very simple reason—Virginia is for lovers. [Laughter] And it
would be my observation that there are a lot of lovers of the Republican Party in
the State of Virginia.
I can't help but speak with great conviction for your Governor. I have said
it before, but I mean it. I believe it so deeply. It has been my observation as I
have traveled around the country for the last 10 or 15 years, that in your Gov-
ernor you have a man who is totally dedicated to what is in the best interests of
your State, all of its people, and in the best interests of our country. And we are
lucky to have him as a Republican.
We are very fortunate in the Republican Party organization at the national
level to have Dick Obenshain. Dick has moved in; he is doing a superb job. And
I thank you for making him available for this very important responsibility as
the number two person in the national committee. Dick, I thank you for your
availability, and I thank all of you for making it possible.
595
