[106]
February 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
I know from your past record that you will keep up the good work. And this
year it is probably more important than ever that we have your help and assist-
ance, because there are people in the Congress and people throughout the United
States who will want, in one way or another—and I do not challenge their
motives-who will seek to undercut and make less effective our military
capability.
It is my deep conviction that peace depends upon a strong defense, a strong
Army, Navy, Air Force, Marines, Coast Guard.
The new defense budget that I have submitted to the Congress is a big
budget, but I can assure you, from the material that has come to me and the
work that I and others have done on it, it is the defense budget that is needed, is
required to keep us free.
To slash that budget because of some preconceived ideas or without adequate
information is a gamble with our future, our security, our freedom, and if I
may borrow your theme, to weaken the chances for our common goal of peace.
In the 25-plus years that I was privileged to serve in the Congress, I had many
opportunities to meet with representatives from my Congressional district from
your group, or from my State officials or, as I said earlier, the opportunity to
meet with this group as a whole.
I compliment those of you who are here, and I am sure you are of the same
background as the others on the knowledge, the information that you have
concerning our military budget.
So, as you get some inspiration here on this occasion, I hope that you will go
back to your respective States and become the missionaries that are necessary
to affect people throughout the United States, that you will be able to answer
the questions that people legitimately ask, that you will be able to inform those
who are uninformed so that when Congress comes to act on the defense budget,
it will have the support of the American people.
I can assure you that if the defense budget is slashed by those who are unin-
formed or those who have preconceived ideas as to what is enough, that we can
get the help and assistance of people like you and those you influence to correct
any errors that are made.
If we are to call upon our young people to serve in many parts of the world—
thank goodness now in peacetime, not in war-then we have an obligation to
make certain and positive they have the best weapons, the best training, with
their skills and their dedication, with the proper military equipment that will
keep the peace and protect our homes.
That wherewithal-research, development, maintenance, operations, equip-
278
