[179]
April 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
the Congress and the President to work together in the area of foreign as well
as domestic policy."
So, let us start afresh.
I am here to work with the Congress. In the conduct of foreign affairs, Presi-
dential initiative and ability to act swiftly in emergencies are essential to our
national interest.
With respect to North Vietnam, I call upon Hanoi-and ask the Congress to
join with me in this call—to cease military operations immediately and to honor
the terms of the Paris agreement.
The United States is urgently requesting the signatories of the Paris con-
ference to meet their obligations to use their influence to halt the fighting and
to enforce the 1973 accords. Diplomatic notes to this effect have been sent to
all members of the Paris conference, including the Soviet Union and the People's
Republic of China.
The situation in South Vietnam and Cambodia has reached a critical phase
requiring immediate and positive decisions by this Government. The options
before us are few and the time is very short.
On the one hand, the United States could do nothing more; let the Govern-
ment of South Vietnam save itself and what is left of its territory, if it can;
let those South Vietnamese civilians who have worked with us for a decade or
more save their lives and their families, if they can; in short, shut our eyes and
wash our hands of the whole affair-if we can.
Or, on the other hand, I could ask the Congress for authority to enforce the
Paris accords with our troops and our tanks and our aircraft and our artillery
and carry the war to the enemy.
There are two narrower options:
First, stick with my January request that Congress appropriate $300 million
for military assistance for South Vietnam and seek additional funds for eco-
nomic and humanitarian purposes.
Or, increase my requests for both emergency military and humanitarian
assistance to levels which, by best estimates, might enable the South Vietnamese
to stem the onrushing aggression, to stabilize the military situation, permit the
chance of a negotiated political settlement between the North and South Viet-
namese, and if the very worst were to happen, at least allow the orderly
evacuation of Americans and endangered South Vietnamese to places of safety.
Let me now state my considerations and my conclusions.
I have received a full report from General Weyand,¹ whom I sent to Vietnam
¹ General Frederick C. Wyand, U.S. Army Chief of Staff.
462
