February 3
[64]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
ployment assistance acts derived from my proposals. One of these measures, the
Emergency Jobs and Unemployment Assistance Act, provides unemployment
benefits to workers not covered by the regular unemployment insurance system
and provides increased job opportunities in the public sector. The other meas-
ure, the Emergency Unemployment Compensation Act, extends the length of
time that workers covered by the regular unemployment insurance system are
eligible for benefits. My budget recommendations include outlays of $17.5 billion
in 1976 for income support for the unemployed, both under these two acts and
under the regular unemployment compensation programs. Another $1.3 billion
will be spent for increased public sector jobs.
BUDGET REDUCTIONS.-While recommending temporary measures to help the
economy and to provide greater assistance to the unemployed, I have sought,
on an item-by-item basis, to eliminate nonessential spending and avoid com-
mitment to excessive growth of Federal spending in the long run. I am propos-
ing no new spending initiatives in this budget other than those for energy. I
am also proposing that the allowable increase in Federal pay and in benefit
payments to individuals that currently are linked by law to increases in con-
sumer price levels be limited to 5% through June 30 of next year. To be equitable,
this ceiling should apply to all these programs. This limit will save $6 billion in
1976 and permit us to concentrate maximum resources on direct efforts to speed
economic recovery, including tax reduction.
In addition, I have previously asked the Congress to agree to a series of
measures that would reduce outlays. In some cases the Congress has done so; in
others it has overturned my proposals. Those economy measures to which Con-
gress has not objected are reflected in my budget recommendations. These meas-
ures will provide $8 billion in savings in 1976. Further program reductions
recommended in this budget will save another $3 billion. Unless the Congress
concurs with the proposals now before it, including those advanced in this
budget, outlays—and thus the deficit-will be about $17 billion greater in 1976
than the figure estimated in this budget. It is therefore essential that the tax
cuts I am proposing be considered in conjunction with these savings proposals.
My proposal to place a temporary limit on civil service and military pay
increases recognizes that the Federal Government must set an example for the
rest of the economy, and that Federal employees generally enjoy considerably
greater job security than the average worker under current economic conditions.
I believe that most Federal employees will understand that some restraint on
their pay increases is appropriate now to help provide benefits and increased
job opportunities for those who are unemployed.
151
