January 21
[36]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
The request that I will submit for military assistance in a supplemental will be
$300 million. I think it is a proper action by us to help a nation and a people
prevent aggression in violation of the Paris accords.
AMNESTY PROGRAM EXTENSION
[14.] Q. Mr. President, the deadline for draft deserters and draft dodgers is
about to run out for your amnesty program. I was just wondering—are you con-
sidering extending that deadline, or will it die as it's now scheduled?
THE PRESIDENT. I am in the process right now of analyzing whether there
should be an extension of the amnesty program beyond the January 31 deadline.
I have not made a final decision on that at this point.
THE SOVIET UNION
[15.] Q. Mr. President, could you bring us up to date with an evaluation of
the state of détente with the Soviet Union in the light of what happened to the
trade agreement?
THE PRESIDENT. It is my judgment that the détente with the Soviet Union will
be continued, broadened, expanded. I think that is in our interest, and I think
it is in the interest of the Soviet Union.
I, of course, was disappointed that the trade agreement was canceled, but it
is my judgment that we can continue to work with the Soviet Union to expand
trade, regardless. And I would hope that we can work with the Congress to
eliminate any of the problems in the trade bill that might have precipitated the
action by the Soviet Union.
GASOLINE RATIONING
[16.] Q. Mr. President, would you consider gasoline rationing if that was the
choice you were given by Congress and they rejected your plan for increased
taxes?
THE PRESIDENT. I think it is the obligation of the Congress, if they favor gas
rationing, to make it mandatory. I do not approve of it because I think it is the
wrong solution to the problem.
Gas rationing, as I indicated, does not provide any stimulant whatsoever for
alternative sources of energy. It would not provide us any of the wherewithal to
find new sources of energy, whether it is solar, geothermal. It would not provide
us any capability of further exploration of crude oil.
I think gas rationing would provide many inequities. As I illustrated in my
opening statement, in my judgment gas rationing would provide an inflexible
answer to a problem that has to be solved by some new initiatives, and a 5-year
67
