April 23
[206]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Hébert, a very staunch Democrat, was sent an invitation to a Republican leader-
ship breakfast by mistake. Well, Eddie had enough of that wonderful sense of
humor to let that one go by. He didn't say a word. He just sent the invitation
back to me with a clipping of an ad for cigarettes, and it said, “I'd rather fight
than switch."
I worked with Eddie for more than a quarter of a century as a colleague and
now as President, and I can plainly and categorically tell you that one of the
reasons America is strong, free, and secure as a nation is because of men like
Eddie Hébert in the Congress of the United States.
Congressman Hébert's skill as a negotiator is well known in Washington.
The tangible evidence of it is apparent here in the great State of Louisiana.
Eddie Hébert is such a great negotiator-if he had arranged the Lousiana Pur-
chase, not only would he have purchased that huge amount of land for only
$15 million but I have the feeling that Eddie would have gotten some green
stamps, too.
You know, of course, that Eddie was one of the outstanding crusading news-
paper people in Louisiana prior to his service in the Congress. He had a reputa-
tion as an individual who was hard-working in that field of journalism, and
a nose for news, and was highly recognized in his profession. But even Eddie
has a slight credibility gap, as I discovered in reading his biography.
It goes back to 1940, during his first campaign. Eddie said, if elected, he
would serve only one term. He said he was just taking a sabbatical from his
newspaper occupation. I think it is fair to say that even if he has extended his
sabbatical a few extra years-32, to be exact-Eddie has paid his dues both as
a journalist and a Congressman.
It seems highly appropriate to me that his literally thousands and thousands
of friends here in New Orleans and elsewhere would pay tribute to his record
and to him as a person by the establishment of this library. I consider it a great
privilege and a very high honor to participate. There is no finer way, in my
judgment, to make Congressman Hébert's record indelible in this community
than to have this building and its contents in this wonderful place in this area.
Of course, Eddie's best monument will be his achievements, his own record
as a public servant. But the mementos in this building, in this library, will help
to tell the story of those great achievements, will help to keep them alive for
the generations to follow.
It occurs to me that everything I have said so far reeks a little too much of the
past, of a story that is already ended, and that is not the way his friends, and
particularly myself, feel about Eddie Hébert. We honor him today, not only for
561
