[34]
January 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:43 p.m. in the
Cabinet Room at the White House.
In his opening remarks, the President referred
to Jerris Leonard, president of the Citizens Con-
ference on State Legislatures, which sponsored the
awards, and Stafford R. Grady, chairman of the con-
ference's board of trustees.
Mr. Grady presented the conference's 1974 awards
for legislative leadership to Price Daniel, Jr., former
speaker of the Texas House of Representatives, E. L.
"Bubba" Henry, speaker of the Louisiana House of
Representatives, and State Senator Robert P.
Knowles, former president pro tempore of the
Wisconsin Senate; for legislative improvement, to
the Iowa State Legislature; and for the impetus it
has provided for legislative reform in several States,
to Common Cause.
35
Remarks at a Dinner Honoring Labor Leader
Robert A. Georgine. January 18, 1975
Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Bob, and George Meany, Hubert
Humphrey and Phil Burton and my former colleagues in the Congress, ladies
and gentlemen:
It is a very great privilege and high honor, and I am delighted to join with
the officers of 17 international unions representing 3.5 million workers, with
the leaders of industry, with distinguished individuals in our society as a whole,
and others gathered here tonight to pay tribute to Bob Georgine.
I think this is most encouraging. It is somewhat symbolic, in the fact that
just as labor, industry, and government are joined together here tonight, so the
American people are coming together to take charge of their own fate.
Bob, obviously, is taking on a very great challenge, and I wish you the very
best, Bob, as president of the Building and Construction Trades Department
of the AFL-CIO. Construction workers, we all know, are among those Ameri-
cans feeling the heaviest impact of inflation, recession, and the energy crisis.
Bob, you have an awesome responsibility, and I wish you the very, very best and
offer to you, Bob, maximum cooperation that our Government can give to you
in your new responsibilities.
And I particularly want to thank [AFL-CIO] President George Meany for
his ever-continuing statesmanship, energy, and vision that he has demonstrated
in helping to develop solutions to our national difficulties. And I always com-
mend George for his forthright and constructive involvement. George and Bob
and the other problemsolvers of the labor movement know how to negotiate
around a table in the great spirit and in the great tradition of American labor.
As we, as Americans, move to solve the common problems facing all of us,
let us not get hung up on the differences over details of the programs that are
58
