[45]
January 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
ceivably force the North Vietnamese to stop violating the Paris accords of
January 1973.
When you look at the agreement that was signed—and I happened to be there
at the time of the signing in January of 1973—the North Vietnamese agreed
not to infiltrate. The facts are they have infiltrated with countless thousands—
I think close to 100,000 from North Vietnam-down to South Vietnam. They
are attacking cities, metropolitan areas. They have refused to permit us to do
anything about our U.S. missing in action in North Vietnam. They have refused
to negotiate any political settlement between North Vietnam and South Viet-
nam. They have called off the meetings either in Paris or in Saigon.
So, here is a country-South Vietnam—that is faced with an attitude on
the part of the North Vietnamese of total disregard of the agreement that
was signed about 2 years ago. I think the South Vietnamese deserve some
help in this crisis.
MR. BROKAW. Mr. President, underlying all of this in much of this interview
is a kind of supposition on your part, I guess, that the American public is will-
ing to carry the burdens that it has carried in the past. Do you believe that?
Is that your view of the world, kind of, and the view of this country?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, and I am proud of that, Tom. The United States-we
are fortunate. We have a substantial economy. We have good people who by
tradition—certainly since the end of World War II—have assumed a great
responsibility. We rehabilitated Europe. We helped Japan-both in the case of
Germany and Japan, enemies that we defeated.
We have helped underdeveloped countries in Latin America, in Africa, in
Southeast Asia. I think we should be proud of the fact that we are willing to
share our great wealth with others less fortunate than we.
And it gives us an opportunity to be a leader setting an example for others.
And when you look at it from our own selfish point of view, what we have
done has basically helped America, but in addition, it has helped millions and
millions of other people. We should be proud of it. We should not be critical of
our efforts.
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
[4.] MR. CHANCELLOR. Mr. President, I would like to move on, if I could,
and ask you, as a reporter, if you would care to share a little information with
me on a paper you read recently on the CIA. You read a paper given to you
by the CIA. There have been resignations at the CIA. Officials of the CIA have
102
