[204]
April 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. I have talked to Secretary of State Kissinger. I have asked him
to stay. And he is committed to stay through the end of this Administration,
January 20, 1977.
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
[6.] MR. CRONKITE. Mr. President, you said last fall-changing the sub-
ject—regarding the CIA, that you were ordering a study on how better to keep
Congress informed of CIA activities. Can you tell us how that study is coming,
and can we expect any report on that in the near future?
THE PRESIDENT. I appointed the Rockefeller Commission, an excellent group,
and they are now in the process of taking testimony from people within the
Government and people outside of the Government. It is a very thorough
investigation. They have an outstanding staff.
I would expect within the next 60 to 90 days I would have from that Commis-
sion its recommendations for any structural changes or any other changes that
might be made, but I haven't gotten that report yet.
MR. CRONKITE. That is the only study. There is not a study on just Congres-
sional liaison with the CIA?
THE PRESIDENT. No. That, to some extent, is a separate issue. Now, the Con-
gress in recent years has broadened the number of people who are filled in by
the CIA.
When I was on the Committee on Appropriations, I don't think there were
more than 10 or 12 people in the Congress, House and Senate, who were kept
abreast of the budget of the CIA, the activities of the CIA. But today, I would
guess that it is close to 50 to 75.
Now, when the number of people being told reaches that magnitude, in-
evitably there can and will be leaks about some of the jobs or activities being
undertaken by the CIA.
Of course, the CIA under those circumstances can't possibly operate effec-
tively, either covertly or overtly, so I think we have got to find a better way of
adequately keeping the Congress informed, but not enlarging the number who
have to be informed.
MR. SEVAREID. Mr. President, wouldn't the whole thing be safer and clearer
and cleaner if it was simply the law that the CIA gather intelligence only and
engage in no covert political operations abroad?
THE PRESIDENT. If we lived in a different world
MR. SEVAREID. It might help to make the world different.
The President. Well, I can't imagine the United States saying we would
550
