[410]
July 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
those in the minority areas of one kind or another suffered much more seri-
ously than others.
The way that I think we can meet the challenge is in two directions: One,
to make positive that our economy does recover, and I am completely and
totally confident that it is going to happen. On the other hand, as we move
out of the economic distress we have been in, we have to make honest and
conscientious efforts to make certain that these job opportunities and these job
responsibilities are available on a fair and equitable basis—in some instances,
kind of make up for the discrimination that existed in the past and to ensure
that there is security and opportunity in the future.
Now, if I might take just a minute or two to talk about our economy, because
it does involve a reduction in unemployment but, more importantly, an increase
in job opportunity. At the present time, we have roughly 84 million people
gainfully employed in our society. We had, as I indicated a moment ago, a sub-
stantial job loss as well as increased unemployment. The job loss for a period
of 4 or 5 months was roughly 400,000 per month. In the last 2 months, we have
had an upturn, and we have achieved a job increase of about 450,000. I think
this trend is going to continue, but in the meantime, we have been able to make
some headway in other areas.
To refresh your memory just a bit, a year ago at this time we were suffering
an inflation rate of approximately 12 to 14 percent, unbelievably high, caused
by a number of circumstances. By doing the right thing, to the extent that
man can control the economy, we have reduced that rate of inflation 50 percent.
It is now the annual rate of about 6 percent. That is still too high, but it is
vitally important to all of the people who are employed and, just as important,
if not more so, to the people who are unemployed.
What I am saying is that we have to work on a two-track program, one to
improve our economy, whip inflation, and at the same time provide greater
employment. Now, I am confident that the American people are in a position
mentally and otherwise to meet this challenge, and I can assure you that your
Government is going to do everything it can to meet the challenge. And I think
we have made substantial headway.
But I reiterate that just improving the economy is not enough. We do have
to make certain those that you represent, whether it is in government or whether
it is in private employment, have an opportunity for a job and an opportunity
for increased responsibility in the job.
I am always an optimist. I condition it with effort. People such as yourselves
998
