March 6
[125]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
there. The Cambodian Government was certainly stronger then than it would
be with just conceivably another $220 million.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think if you look at that long list of bona fide, legiti-
mate negotiated efforts, the best prospects came when the enemy felt that it
would be better off to negotiate than to fight.
Now, if we can strengthen the government forces now and get into the wet
season, then I believe the opportunity to negotiate will be infinitely better, cer-
tainly better than if the government forces are routed and the rebels-the Khmer
Rouge—take over and do what they have done in other communities where they
have had this kind of opportunity.
Q. Mr. President, you said, sir, that if the funds are provided that hopefully
they can hold out. How long are you talking about? How long can they hold
out? In other words, how long do you feel this aid will be necessary to continue?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, this aid that we have requested on an emergency basis
from the Congress is anticipated to provide the necessary humanitarian effort
and the necessary military effort to get them through the dry season, which
ends roughly the latter part of June or the first of July.
THE REPUBLICAN PARTY
[5.] Q. Mr. President, if I might, I am sure you have seen news accounts
to the effect that the conservatives, especially within your own party, are con-
sidering starting a third party in 1976, and they are bolting.
And I understand yesterday that a group of conservative Republican Senators
met with you, and afterwards they came out and talked with reporters at the
White House and told us that they were unhappy with your policies, they
thought you were going too far to the left. And in fact, they said they wanted
you to know that you could no longer take the right wing of your party for
granted.
That being the case, sir, do you intend to go out and court conservative Repub-
lican support to woo them back for 1976, and do you think anything short of
dropping Nelson Rockefeller from the ticket will do that?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, let me say the meeting that I had with about 11 very
fine Republican Members of the United States Senate was a very, very frank
discussion, and I think very constructive.
Some of them indicated that in certain areas they had disagreements with
me. In other areas, they indicated a very strong support for the position that I
have taken on various issues.
It is my feeling that the Republican Party has to be a broad-based, wide-
325
