June 26
[360]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
sympathize with the personal considerations which prompt you to present your
resignation at this time. It is, therefore, with the deepest regret that I accept your
resignation as Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare, effective August 10,
1975, as you requested.
This Administration has been blessed with many men and women of out-
standing leadership, but few have matched the skill, dedication, versatility and
good judgment which you brought to the public service. At both the State and
Federal levels, you have accepted positions of great trust and responsibility, creat-
ing an exceptional record of achievement, personal integrity and unswerving
devotion to duty. As Chairman of the Federal Trade Commission, Director of
the Office of Management and Budget and now as Secretary of H.E.W., your
sure grasp of difficult issues affecting the lives of all Americans has truly earned
their lasting gratitude and my own profound respect.
While I am, of course, especially grateful for your able leadership at H.E.W.,
I welcome this opportunity to also express my appreciation for your sound coun-
sel and loyal assistance, both as a member of my Cabinet and as a friend. With
your help, I am confident we have been able to make not just tough decisions,
but more importantly, responsible decisions which are right for America.
Now, as you prepare to return to private life, I hope you will always look back
with a special sense of satisfaction on your distinguished contributions to this
Administration and to our efforts to assure the present and future well-being of
all our fellow citizens. Betty joins me in extending to Jane and you our heart-
felt best wishes for your happiness, success and good health in the years ahead.
With warmest personal regards,
JERRY FORD
[The Honorable Caspar W. Weinberger, Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare, Washington, D.C.
20201]
NOTE: Secretary Weinberger's letter of resignation,
dated June 23, 1975, read as follows:
Dear Mr. President:
It is a source of deep regret to me that I cannot
accept your request that I serve in my present post
until the end of your term, but for the reasons with
which you are familiar it is not possible for me to
remain in Washington that long, and, therefore, I
must submit my resignation as Secretary of Health,
Education, and Welfare, effective August 10, 1975,
which I understand is the date most convenient for
my successor.
I have been honored beyond measure to serve in
your Administration. You have, by your own char-
acter and example, your unquestioned integrity, and
your courageous, decisive leadership, been personally
responsible for the remarkable revival of the national
spirit and morale which we have experienced in the
past year, and which we so sorely needed. For that
and for your unfailing kindness to me I shall always
be most grateful.
With my best wishes for your continued success
and good health,
Sincerely,
CASPAR W. Weinberger
[The President, The White House, Washington,
D.C.]
889
