April 26
[219]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
that all of us believe in, including myself, are the right policies for this country.
I am going to be the person who will try to lead in this regard. It is my intention
to be a candidate, and it is my intention to be a successful candidate in Novem-
ber of 1976.
One State I would love to campaign in is Virginia. And I'll make that
commitment.
Now, we have got some problems, but I think Virginia is so far ahead of most
of the States that I visited that I don't have to relate them to you. But if history
is to be repeated—and I think it usually is-Virginia, because of its elections in a
year prior to a national convention, sort of tells the rest of the Nation the direction
in which we ought to go as a country.
Now, you have got some extremely important elections coming up in 1975.
Mills Godwin needs some more help down there in the State capital. You know,
you just can't have Mills and John Dalton 2 do everything with a minimum of
Republicans; he needs a lot more. So, I urge you from all over the great State to
go to work and get some good candidates, get some election results and give your
fine Governor the kind of help he needs.
But the important point in addition to that is the American people will be
focusing on Virginia in 1975 as sort of a bellwether for what the rest of the
country is going to do in 1976. Now, we're going to help in any way we can. But
I am confident that the people of this great State traditionally have shown the
vision that is necessary to give the rest of the American people the objective and
the results they will have roughly a year later. So, I thank you for what you have
done.
Betty and I have been taxpaying, nonvoting Virginians for about 25 years.
[Laughter] And we think we made a good choice to come here to Virginia, and
we are not disappointed one bit.
But let me add, if I might, you will hear a great address from Henry Bellmon,
one of our outstanding Senators. Henry, last November, despite the odds against
him, was reelected. He was reelected because he was an outstanding Senator and
he went out and fought and prevailed. He struggled and fought for the prin-
ciples that all of us believe in.
And if we make that kind of a campaign in 1976-a campaign that relates to
fiscal responsibility, a campaign that relates to building up State and local units
of government and cutting back and decreasing the responsibility of the Federal
Government, a campaign that is predicated on what we can do in government to
2 Lieutenant Governor of Virginia.
597
