February 4
[72]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
as a lot of people who have not been badly hurt by our economic problems
become increasingly bored with this talk of economic uncertainty, is there a pos-
sibility of a spontaneous recovery of confidence, regardless of what is done in
Washington?
The President. Well, I happen to subscribe to the idea that the actions of the
American people are oftentimes infinitely more important than what the
Congress or the President do in Washington, D.C. If we get a restoration of
public confidence, which has been falling rapidly and has been a major con-
tributing factor to our economic problems, if we get a restoration of that—and
there is some evidence that that is taking place—then, in my judgment, we will
get a faster recovery than what some of the experts are forecasting.
Now, there has been in the last several weeks a very interesting development,
and the changes in our economy in the last 2 or 3 months have shown certain
sudden actions that most people did not forecast nor anticipate.
We have had a tremendous inventory sell-out, much more rapid than anybody
forecast. This means that in a relatively short period of time-much more
quickly than anyone expected a couple of months ago—that as you bottom out
and you get a reasonable balance between inventory and production, that the
recovery will come more quickly than some of the experts had forecast or
anticipated.
This development, plus what I think is a restoration of public confidence,
gives to me the feeling that we are going to do better at the end of this year than
what some of the experts are saying.
Q. Could you suggest a guideline or something we can look for in the
next few months that might, as a guidepost, help restore this confidence? Any
specific objective in the next couple of months that would relate to the American
people and their confidence in whether or not to spend their dollars?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the unusual and, I think, successful marketing tech-
niques shown by the automotive industry in the last month and the announce-
ment that some of the appliance manufacturers are going to use the same
marketing techniques-good old American free enterprise—I think this ap-
proach will have a very good stimulant, not only to the facts of the economy but
to public confidence. So, if they keep up this good, hard marketing practice, in
my judgment, that is the best guideline that I can think of.
TAX REBATES
[14.] Q. Mr. President, I am Dennis Farney, with the Wall Street Journal.
The House Ways and Means Committee has rejected your tax rebate formula
191
