May 27
[280]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
portation capabilities. The end result should be better transportation for every
tax dollar spent on Amtrak. The management flexibility contained in this leg-
islation will enable Amtrak to improve the present level of rail passenger service
and to stay within the spending limits established by the authorization bill.
It is gratifying to note that the Congress has responded to the suggestion I
made in signing the Amtrak Improvement Act of 1974 (Public Law 93-396)
that mandatory on-board customs procedures would be undesirable. The Con-
gress, in this bill, has provided for cooperation between the Secretary of the
Treasury, the Attorney General, and Amtrak to establish inspection procedures
which will be convenient for passengers and consistent with effective enforce-
ment of the immigration and customs laws. Implementation of these procedures
should facilitate the most rapid possible transit in international, intercity rail
passenger service.
I commend the Congress for enacting this bill which should, on balance, pro-
vide a basis for improved and more economic passenger service for the Ameri-
can people. It is essential that we continue to work toward developing more
effective approaches to meeting the complex transportation needs of the Nation.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 4975, approved May 26, 1975, is Public Law 94-25 (89 Stat. 90).
280
Message to the Congress Transmitting First Annual Report
of the Administration on Aging. May 27, 1975
To the Congress of the United States:
Section 208 of the 1973 Amendments to the Older Americans Act (Public
Law 89-73) provides that the Commissioner on Aging shall prepare and submit
to the President for transmittal to the Congress a full and complete report on
the activities carried out under this Act, not later than one hundred and twenty
days after the close of each fiscal year.
Secretary Weinberger has forwarded the Annual Report of the Administra-
tion on Aging for the fiscal year 1974 to me, and I am pleased to transmit this
document to the Congress.
The White House,
GERALD R. FORD
May 27, 1975.
NOTE: The 87-page report, entitled "Administration on Aging Annual Report-Fiscal Year 1974," was
prepared by the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare.
725
