[177]
April 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
presidents: Mary Wright, who has done a magnificent job as Explorer President
for the past year, and of course, your new president, Larry Carpenter.
Let me say, without being critical of Larry, that Mary is a lot more attrac-
tive than he is. But I will say in defense of Larry, he looks pretty good and
pretty strong to me.
Congratulations.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:47 p.m. on the
South Lawn of the White House. Following his
remarks, the President received the Boy Scouts of
America Silver Buffalo Award. It was presented
by Mary Van Lear Wright, National Explorer
president.
Robert W. Reneker was national president of
the Boy Scouts of America.
178
Memorandum on the Federal Summer Employment Program
for Youth. April 10, 1975
[Dated April 9, 1975. Released April 10, 1975]
Memorandum for Heads of Departments and Agencies
Many young Americans will put their vacations to practical use by finding
worthwhile jobs this summer. We in Government can and should help them.
I request that all Federal managers give their full support to the 1975
Federal Summer Employment Program for Youth. Young employees can be
used in various capacities—as replacements for vacationing regular employees
and as supplementary help in agencies experiencing increased summer work-
loads. They provide Government agencies with a chance to expand relationships
with educational institutions and to gain a better understanding of the gen-
eration that will work for the Government in the future.
Your leadership is needed in the selection of young people from the Summer
Employment Examination, agency merit staffing plans and the Federal Sum-
mer Intern Program. Since we must also continue to assure opportunities for
needy youths in Government service, I am setting a general goal of one needy
youth for every forty regular employees.
The Chairman of the Civil Service Commission will continue to provide
guidance on all aspects of the Federal Summer Employment Program and will
report to me on its performance. The support of your agency has contributed
greatly to the success of this program in past years. I urge you to give this
year's program your continued personal involvement.
GERALD R. FORD
458
