[196]
April 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
America has other problems that also deserve attention. One of these is the
need to reconsider the relationship between Government on the one hand and
business on the other. Federal regulations have entangled—and I mean really
entangled—far too many aspects of our economic system. The area of Govern-
ment regulations has been neglected far, far too long.
We must reassess, as I see it, the archaic and oftentimes very rigid regulations
which hamper the economy of the United States and directly affect the Amer-
ican consumer. In far too many cases, Government regulation has become
counterproductive and remote-much too remote-from the needs and interests
of businesses as well as consumers.
What affects business ultimately affects consumers. Meaningful reform of
our present regulatory system must be a part of the current effort to respond
to the consumer.
Today—and let me illustrate-today more than 100,000 people are employed
by the Federal Government for the sole and exclusive responsibility of writing,
reviewing, and enforcing some type of regulation. Just to list—and this is just
the list—all of the rules and regulations established last year required 45,000
pages of very small print in the Federal Register.
It is obvious that this bureaucracy is expensive to maintain and even more
costly in its impact. But the administrative costs are not nearly as significant
as the pricetags for the inefficiency too often produced by the regulation.
The time has absolutely come, in my judgment, for serious reevaluation of
the regulatory system. Reform-and I underline it-must be based on less
dependence on Government and more reliance on the citizen as producer and
as consumer.
This Administration has several initiatives underway, and more are planned.
to move the Government toward deregulation.
Last fall, for instance, we sent the Congress legislation to create a bipartisan
national commission on regulatory reform. The proposal specified a 1-year
lifespan and a mandate for action. To date, unfortunately, there has been no
Congressional action. But the obvious need for reform in this important area
convinces me that Congress must and, I think, eventually will respond.
During the past few months, we have studied the problem of excessive Gov-
ernment regulations and how they stifle productivity, eliminate competition,
increase consumer costs, and contribute to inflation. We have concluded that
there is action that can and must be taken to alleviate these problems.
Let me give you an illustration. Shortly after taking office in August of last
year, the Administration began requiring what we call inflation impact state-
520
