March 7
[129]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
shocking changes in this Nation's social and political structure have combined
with instant communications to erode old views and old loyalties. People have
begun to tune out political parties and politics as usual.
One tragic measure of this is the dismal record of voting in last November's
election. According to a national sampling by the Bureau of the Census, a bare
21 percent of persons 18 to 20 years old bothered to go to the polls.
It is a sad commentary. Fewer than half of the persons of the voting age in
this country in 1974 actually cast a ballot for or against any person or any
political party. The actual figure was only 44 percent. The same sampling showed
that more than one-third of the citizens eligible to vote had not even registered.
It is unbelievable. When you compare our record with that of almost any other
country in the world, we have done very badly.
Yet, the figures I have cited provide us with a rough roadmap toward the
route of fundamental party reform. If nearly 80 percent of the 18 to 20 year olds
did not vote the last time, then obviously they should be a priority target for
our party and our candidates in the next election. I happen to think, with the
right candidates and the right programs, the right ideology, that is a most fertile
field.
I know at first hand that many of you here tonight enlisted volunteers from
this very large age group, who proved to be among the best and the most capable
workers that you had in the campaigns in which all of you were involved. It is
my judgment that we need more, not less, of these young idealists who have
the biggest stake in our Nation's future. Let's bring them in.
Our Republican Party program for reform must recognize that chronic
nonvoters, as well as voters, just aren't buying the old idea that virtue and
wisdom are the monopoly of one political party or the other. As a matter of
fact, by staying home last November, more than half of the people in this
country said, in effect, a plague on both your parties. As a result-and this is
the true tragedy of the situation today—as a result, we are governed today by a
majority of the minority.
Thus, the magnitude of our job-yours and mine and millions like us-
must not be measured solely within our own party, but within the larger scope
of what is good for the Nation in its long-range future.
Our first and most urgent task is to work together to restore the full trust of
our fellow Americans in the ongoing experiment of self-government.
Let last November mark not merely the low point of our party but also the
upturn of the basic trust and good will we must have for [one] another, for our
341
