April 16
[189]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
the Federal Government from developing outer continental sources of oil,
when I see other actions of individuals or groups or units of government trying
to slow down and, in some instances, stop the installation and the production
of nuclear powerplants, when I see other actions in one way or another—and
I don't challenge their motives, I challenge whether it is wise from our Nation's
future strength to handicap our development of a sound energy program, which
is in our national interest.
I just believe that the United States, the Federal Government, has to proceed
according to law in the development of our outer continental oil resources on
all of our shores, not just in California.
Q. Then I presume that we can assume that the timetable will be adhered
to as far as the Outer Continental Shelf off southern California?
THE PRESIDENT. The timetable will be adhered to, but we will strictly abide
by the laws of this country. But as far as I know, there is no change in that
timetable.
REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
[12.] Q. Mr. President, there have been some conflicting news stories out
of Vietnam about the possible, if it is necessary, evacuation not only of Ameri-
cans but of South Vietnamese nationals from Saigon. Is there any plan or policy
about such evacuation?
THE PRESIDENT. I have ordered the evacuation of all nonessential U.S. per-
sonnel in South Vietnam, and we are phasing down on a daily basis such U.S.
personnel who have no responsibilities, either for the government or for what-
ever other purpose they are there.
The present plan is to keep those there who have a position of responsibility,
a meaningful job. I am not in the position to speculate as to how many that
will be or when there might be a change in the situation. I think it is too fluid
at this moment to make any categorical comment.
Q. That is speaking about Americans, and I think we understand that. But
is there any policy about the potential evacuation of South Vietnamese if that
were necessary?
THE PRESIDENT. Excuse me. In my speech last Thursday, I indicated that there
are a number of South Vietnamese who, over a period of almost two decades,
have stood with us in various official capacities-long-time employees of the
Federal Government, our Government, who have been dedicated to the cause
that not I, but a number of Presidents, have pursued.
I think we have an obligation to them. To the extent that I can, under the
law, or hopefully if the law is clarified, I think we have a responsibility to
503
