June 5
[307]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
As young women, you are coming of age in an exciting, wonderful time. You
have options now open to you; until recently they were closed. Several of you
will attend formerly all-male universities. Some will choose careers once re-
served for men only. Others will pioneer in fields opened by our advancing
technology. But all of you will have more freedom than ever to pursue new
opportunities and new challenges.
From my experience with this class—at least with many members of it—that
is the way you want it. You have been active in exploring the effect of these
changes on your lives. You have been diligent in probing your potential not as
women, but as capable, ambitious individuals.
Before America completes its Bicentennial celebration, I hope the equal rights
amendment will be part of the United States Constitution. For ERA also stands
for a new era for women in America, an era of equal rights and responsibilities
and rewards. The rough but rewarding task of your generation, of each of you,
will be to see that recent progress in equal opportunity becomes regular practice.
Today, as you leave this lovely campus, your dreams seem very personal and
private and far removed from any problems or goals that we face as a nation. But
the American dream is truly a giant patchwork of all of our individual aspira-
tions and desires. This dream is held together by the simple hopes of a better
life for each of us and for our daughters and for our sons. But it is never enough
to hope. We must all participate if we are to make the United States the kind of
a country we want it to be and ourselves the kind of individuals we would like
to be.
There is much that we have done as a people, but much remains to do. There
is much we have done and can do as individuals, and that is where each of
you is so vitally important.
We have been to the Moon and reached for the stars; now we must use that
technology to improve life on Earth. We need scientists and sociologists and
technicians from this year's graduating class to help in that effort.
We have harnessed nuclear power for destruction; now we must expand its
use for peace. We need physicists, doctors, and executives to help in this effort.
We have linked the world together by electronics; now we must communi-
cate our common needs and common goals. We need teachers and journalists
and information specialists to help in this area.
We have preserved a unique form of government for nearly 200 years; now
we must keep it workable for future generations. We need lawyers and legisla-
tors and political scientists to help.
We have created a largely urban, industrialized society; now we must find
775
