May 6
[243]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
UNEMPLOYMENT
[11.] Q. Mr. President, there have been some references tonight to the eco-
nomic situation. The overall unemployment rate is 9 percent, but among black
teenagers and young black males and some other minority groups it is three
times that. What plans do you have to cope with the social consequences of
that kind of unemployment?
THE PRESIDENT. We are concerned about the unemployment of the youth,
particularly, and the highest percentage, of course, of unemployment falls in
the black youth group.
I submitted to the Congress about a month ago a request for $450 million, as I
recollect, to fund a young people's employment program for this coming
summer. Now, unfortunately, the Congress hasn't approved that funding, and
the steps that have been taken, I think, will hamper the possibility of getting
that funding to meet this problem. And they have added about $3 billion over
and above extra funding that I don't think can be justified. If the Congress
would approve the request that I made for roughly $450 million, we would be in
a position right now to do something about the problem that you raise.
Q. Mr. President, the record of recent years is that that kind of summer jobs
and that kind of thing has not prevented what really is a chronic long-term
problem of 30-percent unemployment among young minority groups. What I
am really asking is this: A great many economists think that instead of coming
out of this recession dramatically, we are just going to have a long period of
stagflation where we don't have a really serious situation, but we don't have
things very well, indeed, and this kind of chronic unemployment among
minority groups just persists.
What I am trying to find out is: Other than summer jobs and that kind of
thing, do you think this is really a serious problem that the United States ought
to address and try to do something about? And if you do, what are your
plans for it?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I think it is a serious problem, but the most important
problem is to meet the present difficulty which begins with the end of the school
year. And that is why I think the Congress ought to act quickly on the request
that I made for summer employment.
Now, in the long run, the best way to get the young people properly em-
ployed in our economy is to have a healthy economy, not a government-
dominated economy. I think we are in the process of coming out of the recession.
I am optimistic in the future, and when we, in the third and fourth quarters
649
