[147]
March 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
economic activities, notably through restrictive supply and pricing practices and,
sometimes, by the expropriation of foreign investment. When governments
manipulate international markets to maximize short-term benefits, they often
do so at the expense of others and, ultimately, of themselves. Improved living
standards and a more peaceful world are the rewards of an open world economy
based on international cooperation. Such rewards are too great to allow short-
sighted distractions to alter our course.
Building effective economic institutions and policies in today's economic
environment is more difficult, but also more necessary, than ever. Unless we act
constructively, energy and food problems, growing economic nationalism, the
possibility of increased protection for trade, and the prospects of world recession
and unemployment will jeopardize the world cooperation developed after
World War II.
The United States does not and cannot govern the world economy. But it
should fulfill its responsibility as an economic leader among nations. The Admin-
istration recognizes this responsibility. We have taken steps to turn the difficult
food, energy, trade and investment issues into positive opportunities for achieving
cooperation with trading partners and coordination between the Nation's
domestic and international economic policies. Specifically, the Trade Act of
1974-which exemplified constructive cooperation between the Executive and
Legislative Branches-reflects the U.S. commitment to an open and equitable
world trading system.
The World Food Conference, proposed by the United States, set in motion
international activities to improve world food reserves, agricultural assistance,
crop information systems and increased food production. At the time I signed
the Foreign Investment Study Act of 1974 which authorized the collection and
analysis of data on foreign investment in the United States, I reaffirmed Ameri-
can support for the operation of free market forces to direct worldwide invest-
ment flows in the most productive way. Therefore, we will oppose any new
restriction on foreign investment in the United States except where absolutely
necessary on national security grounds or to protect an essential national interest.
The goal of normalization of economic relations with the Communist coun-
tries has been reaffirmed. America also has continued its commitment to help
the less developed countries. Moreover, we have proposed that an International
Monetary Fund trust be established to provide special assistance to the least
developed countries. We will shortly implement a generalized system of prefer-
ences in trading with less developed countries. We are also continuing our
cooperative efforts to achieve equitable treatment for U.S. investment abroad.
386
