[114]
February 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
fundamental studies of the structure and behavior of matter, the process of
living things, the dynamics of the Earth and universe, energy and materials and
many other areas described in this report. In addition, as this report shows, the
Foundation is continuing, through its programs in science education, to assist
in the development of the scientific manpower needed to meet tomorrow's
technological challenges.
The research results contained in this report remind us of the changes that
we have seen in our lives as a result of our investments in science. It is, I believe,
a preview of many beneficial developments that will occur in coming years. I
commend this report to you.
The White House,
February 28, 1975.
GERALD R. FORD
NOTE: The report is entitled "National Science Foundation Annual Report 1974" (Government Printing
Office, 133 pp.).
115
Remarks at the Conclusion of a Meeting With the Democratic
Congressional Leadership to Discuss Energy and
Economic Programs. February 28, 1975
THE DEMOCRATIC leadership in the House and the Senate have met with
me and my advisers for the last hour and 15 or 20 minutes, and we have been
discussing the proposal that has come from the majority party in the House as
well as in the Senate on the necessary actions to take in our economic problems
as well as the energy difficulties.
In January, I submitted to the Congress my proposals, or the Administration
proposals, in energy and the economy. There are some differences as to details,
but we all agree, both Democrats and Republicans, that we have to solve the
economic problems of this country and we have to solve the energy problems.
I have agreed to study the plan submitted by the Democratic leadership, and
on Monday—if not before—I will indicate to the Speaker and to Senator Mans-
field where I think we can find an area of agreement, of accommodation. The
Republican leadership I will talk to later. I have an obligation to discuss the
matter with them. I do not think there will be any disagreement as to the need
for action and the need for accommodation and compromise.
There has been a suggestion made that I postpone the imposition of the dollar
306
