April 7
[171]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
It is unfortunately true that we have suffered setbacks at home and abroad.
But it is essential that Americans retain their self-confidence and their perspec-
tive. This is the time, I should say, to mobilize our assets and to call upon our
greatest capacities.
I appeal to each and every one of you and all of your friends and associates
and neighbors back in your respective hometowns to share my optimism. In
my own lifespan I heard, for example, the broadcasts of Lindbergh's first flight
across the Atlantic. I first learned from broadcasts of the need for emergency
mercy flights of the recent Vietnamese orphans. The media tells us what is
happening, but it is up to us to respond. The news is only hopeless if we give
up hope.
America will not give up to self-doubt nor to paralysis of willpower. Ameri-
cans will not dismantle the defense of the United States. And we certainly will
not adopt such a naive vision of this world in which we live that we dismantle
our essential intelligence-gathering agencies. I can assure you, I can reassure
you that other super powers are increasing, not decreasing their military and
intelligence capacities.
In our own self-interest and, more important, in keeping with our basic
decency as human beings, we as a nation will go on helping people in less
fortunate lands. We will assist the victims of Southeast Asia in every appro-
priate way. And we will not turn our backs on others in any other quarter of the
world.
Now, I know there are some who see nothing but a grim future of depression
at home and disintegration abroad. I reject that scenario. My vision—and I
think it is yours is one of growth and development worldwide through increas-
ing interdependence of the nations of the world. My vision is one of peace. And
my vision of America is of a people who will retain their self-respect and self-
discipline so that this great vision can emerge.
During my Administration, Americans will neither resign from the world
nor abandon hope of peaceful and constructive relationships with all peoples.
America, you know and I know, has the will. America has the resources.
America has the know-how. And most importantly, America has the faith.
I share your belief in America. Together we will build a new and better
tomorrow.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:40 p.m. in the main
ballroom at the Las Vegas Hilton Hotel. In his
opening remarks, he referred to Vincent T. Wasi-
lewski, president, Andrew W. Ockershausen, chair-
man of the board of directors, and Charles R. Dick-
off, member of the board, National Association of
Broadcasters.
447
