[143]
March 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
pay raises and increases in benefit programs makes sense for the future and is
urgently needed in the present.
At the request of the District of Columbia Government, District Government
employees are included in the attached draft legislation, where applicable.
I hope the Congress will consider these proposals and act on them promptly
and favorably.
Sincerely,
GERALD R. FORD
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters addressed
to the Honorable Carl Albert, Speaker of the House
144
of Representatives, and the Honorable Nelson A.
Rockefeller, President of the Senate.
Special Message to the Congress Proposing Reform of Financial
Institutions Regulations. March 19, 1975
To the Congress of the United States:
I announced a number of initiatives last October to speed the Nation's return
to economic health. Part of that important effort is a careful review of Govern-
ment regulations. Some of these are outdated and have outlived their usefulness.
They now impose a greater cost on the American consumer than they provide
in benefits. A key element of my program of reform concerns our financial
institutions.
The United States depends on a unique system of private financial institu-
tions and markets to serve its citizens and promote sound economic growth.
Compared to other Nations, we have a large number of different financial in-
stitutions—such as commercial banks, savings and loan associations, mutual
savings banks, and credit unions. Through the years, our Government has
tended through regulation and legislation to restrict the activities of each
class to specialized functions.
However, the regulation of our financial institutions has not been fully respon-
sive to either the changing needs of our economy or to the changes in the scope
and function of our financial institutions. During the past nine years, the
cyclical movement of interest rates has imposed major strains on the institu-
tions that serve savers and finance housing. Initial attempts to deal with this
problem took the form of interest rate ceilings on the rates that financial institu-
tions could pay to their depositors. The experience of the past several years
shows that such ceilings penalize the small saver, and reduce the volume of
378
