February 6
[77]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
bargaining units, increases the scope of negotiations, and removes certain arbi-
trary barriers to bargaining.
I am grateful for the skill and hard work reflected in the recommendations
of the Federal Labor Relations Council. Labor organizations, Federal agencies,
and the interested public who contributed advice also deserve to be commended.
Thirteen years have passed since the establishment of the labor-management
relations program in the Federal service. It was created to give Federal employees
a greater opportunity to participate in the formulation and implementation of
personnel policies and practices affecting conditions of their employment. Since
then, the program has made great contributions to the evolution of modern
and progressive employment practices in the Federal service and, thereby, has
served the public interest.
Good labor relations will continue to have high priority in my Administra-
tion. We have seldom been in greater need of cooperation in making govern-
ment more effective and cohesive.
77
Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual Report on
Sickle Cell Anemia. February 6, 1975
To the Congress of the United States:
I am pleased to send to the Congress the Second Annual Report on the Ad-
ministration of the National Sickle Cell Anemia Control Act (P.L. 92–294) in
accordance with the requirements of Section 1106 of the Public Health Service
Act. The Annual Report highlights the progress made in the implementation of
the National Sickle Cell Disease Program and related activities as provided for
in the Act.
Research efforts to investigate the mechanisms and subsequent complications
of the abnormal sickling phenomenon in sickle cell anemia have continued to
receive significant attention over the past year under the National Institutes of
Health. Clinical trials and preliminary studies utilizing various antisickling
agents are underway to alter the sickling process and thus aid individuals who
suffer from sickle cell anemia. Demonstration service activities designed to
improve public awareness, education, detection and counseling in regard to
sickle cell have significantly increased over the past year under the combined
efforts of the Health Services Administration and the National Institutes of
Health.
201
