[152]
March 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
If we have strip mining controls that cause an unnecessary loss of coal produc-
tion-let's say up to 50 million tons per year, which I understand from the
Department of the Interior and the Federal Energy Administration is a con-
servative estimate—we must replace that lost coal with the equivalent of 200
million barrels of imported oil per year.
If we import another 200 million barrels of oil, we export another $2 billion
and lose at least 10,000 jobs as well.
I have called for doubling in coal production by 1985, which means about
1.2 billion tons per year. The Congressional Democrats called for 1.37 billion
tons per year by 1985 in their energy programs. The objectives they set and
their action on strip mining legislation is inconsistent.
While I am disappointed that the House and Senate did not accept the bill
that I proposed, I must note that we did make progress on some provisions.
But we must wait and see what comes out of the House and Senate conference
still ahead. We must examine closely the production, job, and consumer cost
impact of this legislation, as well as its effect on our balance of payments.
Our job now is to pull together in the national interest. There is no choice
anymore. We must still use our vast supplies of coal in both solid and converted
forms. To do that, we must upgrade our transportation systems. That means
our railroads. It also applies to waterway carriers, coal-carrying pipelines, and
trucks. Enormous capital and commitment are needed.
I will do all I can. But much responsibility rests with the Congress. All the
coal-related industries share this responsibility as well. Utilities need to make
long-term contracts with the producers. New equipment must be ordered while
new mines are being planned.
A joint commitment of labor and management is necessary if our coal pro-
duction goals are to be accomplished. I have said the United States must double
its annual coal production to 1.2 billion tons annually by 1985. In view of this
week's action by the Congress, that goal will be more difficult.
Yet labor has a great opportunity. Up to 125,000 more miners will be needed
in the next 10 years. Productivity must also increase. Labor and management
must work out better grievance procedures and ways of ending wildcat strikes
and absenteeism.
In the push for greater production, there must be new dedication to work
cooperatively for improved health and safety in our mines. I remember a meet-
ing I had here in the White House last November 29 with Arnold Miller. We
discussed mine health and safety. I said to Mr. Miller then and repeat those
words now: "We cannot afford to lose a single life in the mines."
394
