[129]
March 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
audience know that I have been doing this for a great many years, and I am
too old to change good habits now.
Specifically, I want to work closely with Mary Louise, Guy Vander Jagt in
the House races, Ted Stevens in the Senate races, with Kit Bond in the guber-
natorial races, and with our party chairmen—how do we say it now, national
committeepersons-[laughter]-in each of the 50 States, the District of Colum-
bia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and our wonderful territories around
the world.
But you and I know one fundamental fact: The greatest contribution that I
can make to the country and to the Republican Party will be to make solid
progress in solving our national problems, particularly our domestic problems,
but equally important, our international problems. I intend to do just that.
As to my own plans, I can tell you tonight without equivocation that I fully
intend to seek the nomination of the Republican Party as its candidate for
President in 1976.
I think any of you who know me reasonably well know that I am not a very
subtle person. Therefore, there is nothing "iffy" about that statement. I intend
to seek the nomination. I intend to win. I intend to run for President. And I
intend to win that also.
Of course—and this is most important—I will need your help, and so will all
other Republican candidates in 1975 and 1976. But before we get into 1976, we
have 10 more months of 1975. As I look at the spectrum, they are very, very
crucial.
I have laid before the Democratic-controlled Congress fully detailed programs
to reverse the recession, to contain our recently raging inflation, and to start
freeing us from the threat of oil blackmail.
Although the response at first was deadly slow, a sense of greater urgency may
now be arriving on Capitol Hill, and for that we can all be very grateful. But
let me say without any equivocation I am going to keep the heat on, at least to
68 degrees. [Laughter]
You know, Americans are today demanding action. They are rightfully fear-
ful that some people in Washington are so insulated that they don't know the
desperation of being jobless or of living on an inadequate income or pensions
that can't catch up with runaway inflation.
Fortunately, we are beginning to get a grip on inflation, but unemployment
is far too high. The problems which desperately need to be dealt with have been
growing for some time.
338
