July 1
[369]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters addressed
to the Honorable Carl Albert, Speaker of the House
of Representatives, and the Honorable Nelson A.
Rockefeller, President of the Senate.
369
Remarks at the Annual Convention of the National
Association for the Advancement of Colored People.
July 1, 1975
Thank you very much, Roy Wilkins, Margaret Wilson, Clarence Mitchell,
Secretary Coleman, Reverend Hope, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
I wish to thank Roy Wilkins, my very good friend, for inviting me to speak
to this very unique organization and to share this platform with so many dis-
tinguished guests.
Roy said on Sunday on TV that you could expect from me today “a lot of
rhetoric, but no specifics." Well, he is wrong about the rhetoric, but he is right
about the specifics.
I have come here not to offer a checklist of specific programs and promises
for blacks. I come as President of all the people to talk with you about common
problems and commonsense approaches, about what we can achieve together
for America.
The NAACP has a very proud record that spans 65 years, with markers of
achievement in racial equality unmatched by any other organization. Your
coalition of Americans has never been content to stop with one success; you
move from one goal of racial progress to the next. As a result, great strides have
been made in achieving the goals laid down by the NAACP in 1910: equal
rights—particularly voting rights—equal opportunities for justice, for educa-
tion, for employment.
By making our system work through legislation and court decision, the
NAACP has helped America keep its promises to all its citizens.
Today, laws ensure the rights of all Americans. The 1910 commitment of
your organization has become the American commitment in 1975-to continue
black progress throughout America.
Today, blacks are better educated, better housed, and employed in better
jobs. Blacks are making important contributions at all levels of the Federal
Government, civilian and military. The end of racial discrimination by law has
paved the way to the beginning of full participation.
901
