[42]
January 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
Q. Mr. President, the Governor of Massachusetts, Dukakis, says that you are
holding New England hostage.
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think that is a fair accusation. I can understand why
he might say it, but I don't think the facts justify that conclusion.
Q. Mr. President, the people of New England feel that despite the rebates
and refunds, they will end up with less dollars in their pockets. How do you
answer them?
THE PRESIDENT. According to the statistics that have been produced by the
comprehensive survey and analysis that came to me, the total country will be
treated fairly and equitably, including New England.
Q. Mr. President, do you think that the general public is behind you on your
programs? Do you have a sense of general grassroots support for your plans?
THE PRESIDENT. I think the American people want action. We have been on
dead center on trying to produce an energy program for at least 2 to 3 years.
There has been a lot of talk, but no real action. And the American people know
that we were vulnerable to an oil embargo by foreign countries in 1973; they
do not want to go through that critical crisis again. And so, the American people
want the Congress and I think the Governors want the Congress to act. That
is, all we want is some action affirmatively, not negatively.
Q. Do you think you miscalculated the amount of the opposition in Congress
and the Governors on this?
The President. I fully understand the attitude of the Governors. They have
one State to represent, but I have to take a look at the country's need for total
action on an energy program to produce alternative sources and at the same
time to get conservation so we don't find ourselves being held hostage by any
oil-producing country overseas.
Q. Do you think the Northeastern States are feeling an extra hardship or
burden out of this phase of the program?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think that any particular State will be inequitably
affected. Under the proclamation which I signed, the New England States are
given a better break than the across-the-board imposition of the $1-per-barrel
tax. The States in New England which have a unique problem are given special
consideration under the proclamation.
Q. Mr. President, are you going to get storm windows for the White House?
[Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Well, if the Congress will appropriate the money.
Q. Is that a new program? [Laughter]
Q. Were you surprised by the strength of the criticism from the Governors?
86
