[36]
January 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
are equitable and fair. For example, it will contain special provisions to avoid
undue hardships on certain regions of the country, such as the Northeast, which
are heavily dependent upon high-cost foreign oil. On Thursday, I will meet
with the Governors of the Northeast States on their special problems.
It is absolutely critical that Congress act quickly on my energy proposals. The
increased revenues which the Government will collect from energy taxes must
be returned to consumers and businesses through my proposed tax cut. To
ensure speedy enactment of the program, I will, of course, work with the
Congress.
I will not sit by and watch the Nation continue to talk about an energy crisis
and do nothing about it. Nor will I take halfway measures which fail to change
the direction that has put our Nation in this position. We have the resources in
this country, the technological capability, and the spirit to regain our energy
independence. I will, of course, use all of my powers as President to make certain
that we succeed.
Mr. Cormier [Frank Cormier, Associated Press], please.
QUESTIONS
ENERGY PROGRAM
[2.] Q. Mr. President, you just said that you are willing to work with the
Congress on this package. How flexible are you in compromising with those
Democrats who argue that your tax plan plus the higher gas, crude oil levies
bear most heavily on the poor?
The President. Well, we have submitted a tax rebate program that is aimed
at getting money back into the hands of individuals to the extent of $12 billion-
plus as quickly as possible, with a cap on the 12-percent rebate—the cap being
$1,000. We think this is fair and equitable, particularly when you combine it
with the method of returning the $19 billion to individual taxpayers under the
energy program.
The two, in my judgment, do provide equity, in that we increase the low-
income allowance and we try to equalize the burden on the less well off, at the
same time giving the people in the middle-income brackets a fair share. Now,
that is our proposal.
Of course, the Congress will have witnesses; they will act independently. But
I think if they take a good look at our program, they will see that it is well-
balanced, giving the poor a fair break, giving the people in the middle income
62
