February 3
[65]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
for meeting Federal responsibilities as we begin our third century. I am con-
fident of success.
February 3, 1975.
NOTE: The President's message is printed in the
report entitled "The Budget of the U.S. Govern-
ment, Fiscal Year 1976" (Government Printing
65
GERALD R. FORD
Office, 384 pp. plus appendix). The message con-
tains illustrative diagrams which have not been
reproduced in this volume,
Memorandum on Occupational Safety and Health Programs
for Federal Employees. February 3, 1975
Memorandum to the Heads of Executive Departments and Agencies
I have issued this Executive Order [11807 of September 28, 1974] to strengthen
the occupational safety and health programs of all Federal agencies. It sets
forth specific duties for the heads of Federal agencies to establish and maintain
effective occupational safety and health programs in these agencies. It also
authorizes the Secretary of Labor to assist in those duties and to issue guidelines
tailored to individual agency needs.
As the Nation's largest employer, the Federal Government must set an ex-
ample in the maintenance of safe and healthful working conditions for its
employees. The Federal Government has reduced the rate of workplace injuries
since 1965, but we cannot be satisfied as long as any avoidable accidents or ill-
nesses occur.
The purpose of the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 is to assure
safe and healthful working conditions for all workers in the Nation. That Act
contains special provisions to afford protection to Federal employees. It assigns
responsibility to the head of each Federal agency to maintain an effective and
comprehensive program consistent with the standards issued by the Secretary
of Labor for private employees.
The issuance of this Executive Order and the attached guidelines of the Sec-
retary of Labor, together with forthcoming actions by the Office of Management
and Budget to promote agency awareness of the budgetary aspects of this pro-
gram, should aid in your efforts to provide safe and healthful working condi-
tions for the employees of your department or agency. Only your personal
attention can ultimately achieve the goals we desire. The Secretary of Labor
stands ready to assist you in your efforts. I look forward to receiving the evalu-
163
