[125]
March 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
support any government, no matter how weak or corrupt, in a situation like
this?
THE PRESIDENT. I am not saying we would support any government. I am
saying that we would support any government that we can see coming out of
the present situation or the negotiated settlement.
PROGRAMS FOR THE UNEMPLOYED
[12.] Q. Mr. President, yesterday on unemployment you requested $1.6 bil-
lion for public service jobs to run through mid-1976. Now, your advisers mean-
time keep predicting that the problem will improve in mid-'75, just a month or
two from now. How do you reconcile those two positions?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the requested additional manpower training funds that
I requested will fully fund the authorized amount that was approved by the
Congress last year. We believe that this amount is needed to take care of any
potential contingencies.
We think there will be an improvement toward the end of this year and cer-
tainly in the beginning of next year on the unemployment. On the other hand,
we think it is wise at this time to be prepared for any adverse developments.
Q. You mentioned earlier that it might go to 9. Are you revising upward the
figure from 8.5?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I think I said that I was not going to agree to any figure,
but I did say that if we had any such development, the better way to solve it
would be for a further tax cut rather than some of these additional spending
programs, and the most important thing was to get the Congress to act affirma-
tively, quickly, on the tax bill. I am very disturbed with their lack of affirmative
action as quickly as I think it should come.
OIL PRICES
[13.] Q. Mr. President, out of the OPEC summit meeting in Algiers today
came a declaration that oil prices should be pegged to inflation and the prices
they have to pay for the products they buy. Do you think this kind of inflation
indexing system is fair?
THE PRESIDENT. We are trying to organize the consuming nations, and we
have been quite successful. I believe that once that organization has been put
together—and it is well along-that we should sit down and negotiate any mat-
ters with the producing nations.
3 For a statement by the White House Press Secretary summarizing the President's observations and deci-
sions following a meeting with economic and energy advisers, see the Weekly Compilation of Presidential
Documents (vol. 11, p. 242).
330
