February 13
[91]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
ons, our actions in limiting strategic arms and to promote essential new
safeguards against their further spread are indispensable. There has never been
a greater need for purposeful American policy and leadership. And I say as
strongly as I can, this cannot be achieved without unity at home.
Our Secretary of State is today in the Middle East, engaged in a quest for a
peaceful settlement of one of the most serious political deadlocks in the world, a
conflict which has posed for 25 years great dangers of international confrontation
and crisis. The American people are united in wishing him godspeed and great
success in this extraordinary undertaking. The Secretary carries with him the
hopes and the prayers of a nation for a just and lasting peace.
In this very difficult time, the American people expect responsible conduct
from individual Members of Congress and from Congress as a whole, as well as
from the President.
In Cyprus, the United States has long sought to mediate between two valued
allies in order to secure the independence and territorial integrity of that strategic
island. A renewed negotiation scheduled to bring together the Foreign Ministers
of Greece and Turkey in a meeting with Secretary Kissinger in Brussels this
week broke down because of Congressional insistence that military assistance to
Turkey be terminated.
This action, I am convinced, is a self-inflicting wound. It will seriously impair
our relations with a valued ally and achieve no benefit whatsoever. I think it is
perfectly obvious it will adversely affect Western security generally and with
serious consequences to the strategic situation in the Middle East. And most
tragically of all, it does nothing to improve the lot of those Cypriots in whose
name this Congressional action was supposedly taken.
But this issue is greater than the immediate example in the Eastern Mediter-
ranean. The issue really is what kind of an ally are we when we punish our
friends more severely than our enemies? What kind of statesmen are we when
we so poorly perceive our own interests? This question is being asked tonight by
nations who look to us for leadership. I can give no good answer.
In the final days of the last Congress, in the 1974 Trade Reform Act—it
was passed—that act was designed to strengthen the basis of our economic ties
with our allies, our adversaries, and our developing countries in the interest of
worldwide progress and stability. These are national goals of which there is
very little disagreement. Yet these goals were jeopardized in the last Congress
by an unfortunate amendment which withheld generalized tariff preferences
from all OPEC nations, or members, whether or not they participated in last
winter's oil embargo.
253
