[157]
March 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
without setting the stage for a new inflationary spiral when the economy starts
to recover. Reasonable men can differ on the exact size of the tax cut, but every-
one agrees on the need for prompt action. I indicated my willingness to com-
promise within reasonable limits.
I regret that the Senate version of H.R. 2166 goes far beyond the purpose of
providing a quick stimulus and mortgages our economic future in a way that
is unacceptable to me. It is unacceptable because:
(1) The Senate version would increase the size of the tax reduction from
$16 billion to more than $30 billion—roughly doubling the impact on combined
fiscal years 1975 and 1976 budget deficits already far too high. That increase
must be considered in the context of other Congressional actions and inaction.
If Congress continues its present pattern of rejecting the spending cuts I pro-
posed, the deficit would grow by an additional $16 billion. And the minimum
cost of the additional spending programs being considered in the Congress
would add still another $20 billion. In combination, these Congressional actions
would increase these deficits by $50 billion.
Such an enormous increase in an already substantial deficit jeopardizes the
prospect of economic recovery and makes us hostage to future inflation.
(2) Although both bills incorporate billions of dollars of tax reductions
which are temporary as written, they are of such a nature that they will un-
doubtedly continue next year and beyond. That is a sure formula for larger
deficits and spiralling inflation for years to come, unless offset by other revenues
or spending cuts. My proposal was for a one-year stimulant limited to $16 bil-
lion. An amount unreasonably larger than the House bill could do more harm
than good.
(3) The Senate version would raise major obstacles to badly needed reforms
in the tax and welfare systems. I regard both reforms as matters of high priority.
Both require the most careful deliberation but not in this emergency antireces-
sion legislation.
(4) The Senate version distributes the federal income tax burden unfairly by
eliminating too many citizens from paying any tax. My January proposal would
have distributed tax cuts evenly to those who now carry the tax load. I recom-
mend that the conferees and the members review the bills before you to be sure
that they do not discriminate against middle-income Americans, who already
carry the major share of the tax burden.
(5) The Senate version, in particular, has several provisions which will not
contribute to economic recovery and may cost additional jobs. I have consistently
400
