[261]
May 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:17 p.m. in the State
Dining Room at the White House. The Shah re-
sponded as follows:
Mr. President, Mrs. Ford, distinguished guests:
It is difficult to find words to express our senti-
ments of gratitude for the warm welcome that you,
Mr. President and Mrs. Ford, have reserved for us
today.
I wanted to come to this country that I knew
before to meet the President of this country for
whom we have developed, since he assumed this
high office, a sentiment of respect for a man who is
not shrinking in front of events. And may I con-
gratulate you for the great leadership and the right
decisions that you took for your country and, may
I add, for all the peoples who want to live in
freedom.
This is precisely what this world needs-courage,
dignity, and love of the other human being. We are
proud of being a good and, I believe, a trusted
friend of the United States of America, and this
will continue because this friendship is based on
permanent and durable reasons-these reasons being
that we share the same philosophy of life, the same
ideals. And I could not imagine another kind of
living which would be worth living.
Your country has been of great help to us during
our time of needs. This is something that we do not
forget as what Iran can do in this changing world
and this world of interdependency. In addition to
our continuous friendship with you, we will try to
be of any utility and help to other nations which
would eventually need that help.
I have got to look to the future of the world-
with all the seriousness of the situation-with hope,
because without it, it will be very difficult to work
and to plan.
In that future, I know that we are going to walk
together, work together to uphold the ideals in
which we believe-for a world which will be rid
of its present difficulties, a world which will not
know again the words of famine, illiteracy, sick-
ness, and disease.
Thank you again, Mr. President, for the warm
sentiments of friendship that you have shown
towards my country and my people. I only can
reciprocate the same feelings for yourself and the
great people of the United States, and in doing so,
I would like to ask this distinguished audience to
rise for a toast to the health of the President of the
United States of America, of Mrs. Ford, and the
people of America.
262
Remarks to Members of the National Republican Heritage
Groups Council. May 16, 1975
Thank you very much, Congressman Ed Derwinski. Mayor Ralph Perk, Anna
Chennault, Jay Niemczyk, and all of you who are here as a part of the National
Republican Heritage Group:
It is so nice to see you, and I am very, very grateful for the warm reception.
And I add very, very quickly my deep personal appreciation for your organiza-
tion, your personal participation, and for the work that I know that you are
going to do between now and the next election in November of 1976.
Let me add most emphatically, during the course of my 13 campaigns run-
ning for the House of Representatives in the Fifth Congressional District in
Michigan, I was beneficiary of the loyal support and the dedicated effort of
many, many heritage groups.
The largest numerically and percentagewise, of course, had a background
from the Netherlands, and believe me, they were tremendous, they were won-
derful in the help that they gave me in these 13 elections.
676
