April 12
[182]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
I urge the immediate consideration and enactment of these measures.
Sincerely,
GERALD R. FORD
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters addressed
to the Honorable Carl Albert, Speaker of the House
of Representatives, and the Honorable Nelson A.
Rockefeller, President of the Senate. The texts of
three draft bills were included as part of the release.
182
Statement on the Evacuation of the United States Mission
in Phnom Penh, Cambodia. April 12, 1975
IN VIEW of the seriously deteriorating military situation around the Cam-
bodian Capital of Phnom Penh, and on the basis of the recommendations of
the American Ambassador to the Khmer Republic, I have instructed the per-
sonnel of the U.S. Mission to leave Phnom Penh.
In accordance with those instructions, American personnel have been evacu-
ated. I also authorized that a number of Cambodians whose lives would have
been jeopardized if they had remained in Cambodia be evacuated with the
American Mission.
I sincerely regret that there was not timely action on my request to the Con-
gress to enable the United States to continue to provide the assistance necessary
to the survival of the Government of the Khmer Republic. That Government
had asked for this assistance and had clearly proven itself worthy of our help.
The United States wishes Cambodia to find its place in the world as an
independent, neutral, and united country, living in peace. Our assistance was
sought for that purpose. We also made numerous and vigorous diplomatic
efforts, from the first to the last, to find a compromise settlement.
I decided with a heavy heart on the evacuation of American personnel from
Cambodia because of my responsibility for the safety of the Americans who
have served there so valiantly. Despite that evacuation, we will continue to do
whatever possible to support an independent, peaceful, neutral, and unified
Cambodia.
We can all take deep pride in the United States Armed Forces that were
engaged in this evacuation operation. It was carried out with great skill and in
a manner that reflects the highest credit on all of those American servicemen
who participated. I am deeply grateful to them for a job well done.
475
