June 23
[345]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
344
Statement on the Northern Mariana Islands Plebiscite
Favoring Commonwealth Status. June 20, 1975
I WOULD like to take this opportunity to extend to the people of the Northern
Mariana Islands my personal greetings and to convey to them my pleasure with
the results of the plebiscite held on June 17, 1975. I have been informed that a
substantial majority has voted in favor of the Commonwealth Covenant in free
and open balloting observed by the United Nations and preceded by a fair and
impartial education program. I wish personally to congratulate and commend
all of those who were responsible for the conduct of the plebiscite, including the
Plebiscite Commissioner and his staff, the Voter Registration Board, and the
Plebiscite Advisory Committee.
The people of the Northern Marianas have now spoken. The next step will
be consideration of the Covenant by the Congress of the United States. I intend
to submit without delay the Covenant to the Congress with my strong endorse-
ment for its early favorable action. It is my earnest hope that we may look
forward to further steps in the near future which will move the people of the
Northern Mariana Islands still closer to the long-desired ultimate goal of
political union with the United States. I know the American people join with
me in sending to the people of the Northern Mariana Islands our warmest
regards.
NOTE: For the President's letter transmitting proposed legislation to the Congress concerning commonwealth
status for the islands, see Item 368.
345
Statement Announcing the 1974 National Medal of Science
Awards. June 23, 1975
IT IS with great pleasure that I announce the thirteen 1974 recipients of the
National Medal of Science. This medal is the Nation's highest award for dis-
tinguished achievements in science, mathematics, and engineering development.
An examination of the winners' accomplishments demonstrates the impor-
tance of science and engineering to the Nation. Our, understanding of the uni-
verse and of man, mankind's ability to utilize research to improve health, and
new technological advances in communication, transportation, and industry
853
