July 4
[379]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
ment of
your life and my life and the life of 214 other million Americans in 50
States and our territories.
Let us pursue truths and values that will enhance the quality of life, of you and
your fellow Americans. To form a more perfect Union—and that is what we
want-we need to learn more of our country and more of our good people.
Americans must appreciate the diversity of our land and the diversity of our
citizens.
There is a quotation that I learned in my early days in Sunday school, that the
beauty of Joseph's coat is its many colors. And that is the strength of America.
Boundaries of regionalism and urbanization must dissolve before our will to
be one Nation and one people.
In the coming year, the Bicentennial must become a true national experience.
The American Revolution and its legacy belong to each of the States and our
far-flung territories. It belongs to every county, to every city, to every church, to
every club, and to each and every American citizen.
At every school where the American flag flies, it is my hope that there will be
in the coming year a concentrated effort in the classroom to study, discuss, and
portray these past 200 years of our history.
I would urge that every community seek to make its program as meaningful
as possible to as many as possible—old, young, in every walk of life. This should
stress the history, culture, and the achievements and the basic values that are so
important that we associate with our way of life.
Yes, the ideas that were forged and fought for in the Thirteen Colonies crossed
the Appalachians. They followed the wagons and rode with the Pony Express.
They crossed the Mississippi and the Missouri, spanned the plains and the
American desert. They belonged as much to the West as they belonged to the
East. Wherever the American flag has gone, so went the concepts of this great
Republic. American Clipper ships, that probably sailed in part from this great
Baltimore harbor, took the story of America to the far corners of the Earth with
pride and with success. American jetliners carry it every day across the skies to
distant lands. Indeed, this event does not belong just to Americans. This is a
celebration of liberty, freedom, democracy, wherever they exist, and we want
them to exist on a global basis at some time in the world's history.
While we cherish the many heritages that enrich our land, we, of all people,
have no history except what we have written for ourselves. We are not Ameri-
cans alone by birth or blood, by oath or creed or compact among princes. We are
Americans because we deliberately chose to be one nation, indivisible, and for
931
