June 10
[318]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
think we are—according to the latest figures, $59.9 billion. It is pretty close,
but we have drawn the line.
We have held the line as far as the Congress is concerned, despite some of
their tremendous efforts to go above it. I hope that the veto that was sustained
last week will help to create an environment in a fiscal sense that will keep us
within the $60 billion deficit figure. The vote last week was very close. I think
we prevailed with a margin of some five votes. That's not very many when
you're talking about the vote of 400-plus.
But I think the American people are beginning to realize that anything above
a $60 billion deficit is a real danger area. And when we look at some of the
proposals that are coming from subcommittees and full committees in both the
House and the Senate, unless we stop them, we are going to have a $100 billion
deficit, and that, of course, is an area which is really treacherous.
So, I just hope and trust that as we struggle in trying to have a responsible
and a reasonable restraint on Federal spending, we can get some help and
assistance from all of you.
Now, let me turn to energy. It is becoming more and more obvious that we
have to stimulate new sources of energy and we have to conserve the energy
that we have.
I presented a very comprehensive program to the Congress in January. It
is still the only energy program in town. [Laughter] We started out with
figuratively 535 energy programs up on Capitol Hill. It has now been winnowed
down to roughly 5, 6, maybe 10. We are going to keep the pressure on, because
this country cannot stand increasing vulnerability to foreign sources of oil.
Now, we had a very close vote up there today.¹ [Laughter] We thought we
would do better. But other pressures that wanted to curtail coal production and
make us more and more vulnerable to foreign sources of oil really put the pres-
sure on. We persuaded enough people to stand fast under this kind of pressure.
Now we do have to find an answer to the energy program. We are going to
submit a recommendation for decontrol of old oil, which I think will be a
reasonable and a responsible proposal. If we don't raise the price of old oil and
stimulate additional production in this country, every day the clock ticks Amer-
ica becomes more and more vulnerable.
Now, we don't anticipate—and we certainly want to preclude—any develop-
ments in the Middle East that would end up with another oil embargo. But if
you look at the statistics that come to my desk and maybe to yours, we are much
1 The President was referring to the House vote sustaining his veto of a surface mining control and
reclamation bill (H.R. 25).
801
