[374]
July 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
veto power in the Constitution as a vital part of our system of checks and
balances.
Recent history bears this out. President Truman exercised the veto 250 times
and was only overridden 12 times. President Eisenhower used it 181 times; he
was only overridden twice. But again and again, the result of the initial veto
was to bring the President and the Congress together to work out a compromise
measure—usually a sounder, more responsible measure than the original one.
Just recently, as an example, I asked the Congress to appropriate $1,900 million
for summer jobs for young people and adequate funding for additional public
service jobs to deal with temporary unemployment. Congress, unfortunately
and unwisely, added $3 billion onto my request for a whole variety of mis-
cellaneous items. I considered these additions to be too inflationary. They
couldn't be justified. So, I used the veto.
That wasn't the end of the legislative process. After many, many Republicans
joined with many discerning Democrats to sustain my veto in the House, the
Congress worked out a mutually acceptable compromise with me in the White
House.
Most of the so-called pork-barrel provisions were eliminated, and we ended
up this summer, some 840,000 young Americans will have jobs that I asked for
in the original proposal. In addition, the legislation which I requested and signed
into law last Friday will extend the Public Service Jobs Program and provide
$1.6 billion to make sure that 310,000 Americans have that kind of employment.
So, to sum it up, the result of my Presidential veto was better legislation,
which also adhered to the anti-inflationary guidelines I had originally proposed.
And the case of housing is another example. I sent an extravagant multi-
billion dollar measure back to the Congress, which then sustained my veto and
proceeded, very promptly, to come up with far more responsible legislation.
And I signed this much better bill into law yesterday.
Let me emphasize this: The business of government is to help—not to inter-
fere with—the lives, the businesses, the occupations, the professions, the family
life of the American people. There are times when the President's veto must
be used to keep the Federal Government from overextending its operations at
the individual's expense—in the terms of such infringements as lost dollars and
lost individual rights.
The excessive growth of Federal spending and interference has already in-
flicted an incredible toll in taxes, loss of incentive, and economic damage to the
public. The roots of the problem date back more than a generation. A trend
916
