[352]
June 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
a robot, freedom against an impersonal production line, freedom against all
of the things that take away from you and me and our neighbors and our friends
the opportunity to do something different, because you are different from every-
body else.
This, in my judgment, ought to be one of the themes of our third century
of America's history: freedom of the individual. And to the extent that—well,
these are the principles that I think we ought to seek to achieve in the months
and years ahead.
It is my judgment we have convinced a good many Members of the Congress
that we mean business. We have convinced a good many of our allies that we
are dedicated to the common purposes. And I think we have convinced some
of our potential adversaries that we mean business.
So, the net result is the American people will support us. We must close
ranks. We must work together. We must field good candidates, and one of the
most encouraging things that I have seen is the tremendous effort of Mary
Louise Smith, along with Dick Obenshain, to field good candidates, to recruit
good candidates. If we do, I think we can do tremendously well in 1976.
I am also very encouraged by the effort made by Senator Ted Stevens in the
recruitment of Senatorial candidates and Congressman Guy Vander Jagt in the
recruitment of Congressional—or House—candidates. And Kit Bond, the fine
Governor of the State of Missouri, also has the responsibility of recruiting gu-
bernatorial candidates around the country.
So, if we get candidates, I think 1976 can be one of the best years for the
Republican Party, and '76 can be a new era for all of us-Democrats, Republi-
cans, and Independents alike.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 6:23 p.m. in the East
Room at the White House. O. C. Carmichael was
treasurer of the Republican National Committee,
which sponsored the national associates program
for Republican Party contributors.
353
Remarks on Greeting Korean and American Congressional
Veterans of the Korean War. June 25, 1975
LET ME just say a word or two. It is a great privilege and pleasure for me to
be in the company of not only South Korean veterans of the war in Korea
but Members of Congress themselves, Members of our Congress, who also
participated in the Korean war.
866
