[91]
February 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
This indiscriminate and hasty act damaged our relations with Ecuador, Ven-
ezuela, Nigeria, and Indonesia, despite the fact that they refused to participate
in the embargo against the United States.
Another amendment to that act led the Soviet Union to repudiate its 1972
economic accord with us, including its agreement to settle its World War II
lend-lease debt. The United States had agreed in 1972, as a result of the marked
improvements in our overall relationship, to grant the Soviet Union nondis-
criminatory trade rights. The breakdown of this foreign policy agreement un-
fortunately could cause tragic consequences, exactly contrary to the intent of
Congress.
The issue is not the goals of foreign policy; the executive and legislative
branches share the same hope for America. What is at issue is the process of
executing our foreign policy, not its objectives. But as men of good will, we
must solve the problem of our respective roles. It would be a national tragedy if
conflict between the Congress and the Chief Executive jeopardized the achieve-
ments of the 1970's and prevented further progress toward our common goals.
As I said in my State of the Union Message, I doubt that restrictive amend-
ments are an adequate tool for shaping the conduct of foreign policy. An at-
titude frozen in a statute, however noble, cannot shape events. In a world of
150 nations and fast-moving change, diplomacy is a process, not execution of
a rigid blueprint.
The door of the White House, as I have stated, is open to the Congress, to
new Members as well as old. I do not expect 535 reincarnations of Senator
Vandenberg. Yet, I do appeal for an open-minded spirit of enlightened na-
tional concern to transcend any partisan or internal party politics that now
threaten to bring our successful foreign policy to a standstill.
I challenge the Senate and the House to give me the same consideration that
Senator Vandenberg sought and got for President Truman.
Can't we consult and act rather than pontificate and poke? I refuse to be-
lieve that we have passed the point of no return in discarding our tradition of
nonpartisanship in foreign policy. Further, I refuse to believe that it will become
easier to negotiate with foreign adversaries and allies than with the Congress
of the United States. I seek a coalition of confidence with the new Congress,
and there is no area in which this is more critical than in the national response
to the crisis of energy.
Last winter's oil embargo generated widespread agreement that a compre-
hensive energy policy is needed. For years we have analyzed and debated the
options. Delay will only compound the problem; we must begin now. Our oil
254
