[287]
May 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
It is also in this spirit that I respond, Your Majesty, to your very warm wel-
come. Belgium's hospitality as a host to NATO and to the European com-
munities has made it the heart of both the European and the Atlantic worlds.
Relations between the United States and Belgium remain confident and
mature. I know that we will continue as close friends and warm allies.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:13 p.m. at Zavantem
Airport in response to remarks of welcome by King
Baudouin I. Also present were Queen Fabiola, Bel-
gian Prime Minister Leo Tindemans, and NATO
Secretary General Joseph M.A.H. Luns.
Later, the President met at the Royal Palace, first,
with the King and Queen, and then, with Prime
Minister Tindemans and Foreign Minister Renaat
Van Elslande.
288
Veto of an Emergency Employment Appropriations Bill.
May 29, 1975
[Dated May 28, 1975. Released May 29, 1975]
To the House of Representatives:
I return without my approval, H.R. 4481, the Emergency Employment Appro-
priation Act.
Earlier this year, I asked the Congress for legislation to deal with the Nation's
most immediate employment problems through an extension of public service
jobs and a program of summer youth employment.
The Congress has taken this simple, straightforward and specific proposal
and turned it into a bill containing a host of provisions of questionable value.
This bill, as presented to me, is not an effective response to the unemployment
problem. It would exacerbate both budgetary and economic pressures, and its
chief impact would be felt long after our current unemployment problems are
expected to subside.
The bill authorizes spending of $3.3 billion above my budget requests. Almost
half of this added spending would occur in fiscal 1976 and an appreciable amount
of spending would continue in calendar year 1977. Economic recovery is expected
to be well underway by the end of 1975, and the accelerative influences of this
bill would come much too late to give impetus to this recovery. Instead, those
influences would run the risk of contributing to a new round of inflation later on.
In my address to the Nation on March 29, announcing my decision to sign the
Tax Reduction Act, I stressed the need to keep the 1976 deficit below $60 billion.
This bill is one of many being considered by the Congress that, combined, would
increase the deficit to $100 billion or more. Already, Congressional actions and
736
