[124]
March 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
range of employment opportunities for women can be opened. We cannot
and must not permit persons to be locked into jobs not commensurate with
their potential. I am looking to you and to every manager in the Federal Gov-
ernment to assure that employees, without regard to their race, national origin
or sex, have an opportunity for advancement in accordance with individual
abilities.
Moreover, men and women of all racial and ethnic backgrounds must be
assured a fair opportunity to serve in positions where they can make a maxi-
mum contribution and participate in the decision-making process.
Equal employment opportunity doesn't just happen; it comes about because
managers make it happen. I want equal opportunity to be reflected in every
aspect of Federal employment. I have called on Chairman Hampton of the
Civil Service Commission to keep me fully informed on an annual basis of the
progress each Federal department and agency is making in this regard. In-
creased accountability on the part of Federal managers will help to promptly
identify deficiencies and strengthen our EEO program at all levels.
Just as we will not condone preferences in employment decisions because of
a person's race, ethnic origin or sex, we will not tolerate failure to vigorously
carry out affirmative actions in support of equal employment opportunity. I am
asking for your personal commitment and active cooperation in assuring that the
American ideal of true equal employment opportunity is a reality in the Federal
Government.
Please make my views known to all employees and managers in your organiza-
tion. Their understanding of my objective is essential. Their support is required.
GERALD R. FORD
125
The President's News Conference of
March 6, 1975
STATEMENT ON UNITED STATES MILITARY AND HUMANITARIAN ASSISTANCE TO
CAMBODIA AND THE REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
THE PRESIDENT. [1.] Good evening. Before we start the questions tonight, I
would like to make a statement on the subject of assistance to Cambodia and to
Vietnam.
There are three issues—the first, the future of the people who live there. It is
a concern that is humanitarian-food for those who hunger and medical sup-
320
