[276]
May 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
VIEWS ON THE PRESIDENCY
[9.] MR. MACNEIL. Mr. President, could I just conclude—as we have come
to the end of our time-could I just conclude by asking you a quick personal
question? Since you have spent your first 9 months in office cleaning up messes
and reacting to things that were left on your plate as you took over the office,
do you now feel yet that you have put a Ford stamp on the Presidency?
THE PRESIDENT. I think we have made a tremendous amount of progress in
achieving that. Let me take two or three examples. We have a Ford energy
program developed entirely under my Administration. We have a Ford eco-
nomic program which will be successful. We are making substantial headway
in building on past foreign policy. But as we work toward a SALT II agree-
ment, as we work toward some of the other problem areas in foreign policy, I
think you will see a Ford Administration imprimatur. And therefore I am
optimistic that we can see as we look back historically, that before this date there
was clear and convincing evidence both at home and abroad there was a Ford
Administration.
MR. MACNEIL. Mr. President, thank you for talking to us. May I, on behalf
of my colleagues, wish you a very pleasant travels to Europe, a continent of
millions of whose people will have been watching this program. Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. We are looking forward to it.
NOTE: The interview began at 11:03 a.m. in the
Diplomatic Reception Room at the White House. It
was taped for later broadcast on the BBC and other
networks of the European Broadcast Union and the
Public Broadcasting Service in the United States.
277
Remarks at a Reunion With Crewmembers of the U.S.S. Monterey.
May 24, 1975
Thank you very much, Charlie and Roger Mehle.
I can't express adequately my appreciation for the opportunity to see so many
of my old shipmates. It was a very warm and a very dear part of a significant
part of my life. Let me just say, I was the assistant navigator under Pappy
Atwood, and it's fortunate that the ship relied on Pappy Atwood's sightings
rather than mine. And I hope that my decisions as President are more accurate
than my sightings as assistant navigator. [Laughter]
It used to be a wonderful experience to go out on the bridge in the morning
or in the evening and Pappy Atwood was—well, all of you who know him—he
720
