July 3
[375]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Congresses have based their programs ever since, cannot solve the problems of
the 1970's. If those policies were effective in their day, they are old and tired
and completely ineffective in this decade.
The greatest mistake this country can make is to turn its back on its own na-
tive genius, its creativity, its industry, its compassion, and look solely to the Fed-
eral Government for solutions or salvation. What we really need in this country
in this decade and the rest of this century is not a new deal but a fresh start.
What we need is not more Federal control, but the adventure of personal
achievement in the rebirth of self-confident pioneering spirit that made America
the great nation that it is today.
Oh yes, the Government will do its part. Declaring our independence from
too much government does not mean sounding a retreat from the legitimate
responsibilities which government must and ought to assume. Quite the con-
trary. Tightened spending means more funds will be available for those ab-
solutely essential programs.
Now, if we can put government to work doing what we want it to do, we
can keep it from doing what it has no business doing.
My aim is to declare America's independence from inflation spawned by
decades of government overspending. And as a part of the bargain, we can de-
clare our independence from higher and higher and higher taxes and spend a
little more of the money we earn the way we want to spend it, and maybe even
save a little for a change.
If we can stimulate private enterprise without addicting it to continuous gov-
ernment intervention, if we can establish guidelines for business without over-
regulation, if we can unleash the great power of American free enterprise and
get the great American labor force back to work at full strength in a sound and
free economy, then we can honestly declare our independence from recession
and high unemployment here in the United States.
I made some comments in Cincinnati this afternoon which might bear
repeating here. I spoke about overregulation in government, and I spoke par-
ticularly about the Federal Power Commission and its strangulation of the
natural gas industry, the transportation of it from Texas and Louisiana to Ohio,
to Michigan, to Indiana, et cetera.
I pointed out that 20 or some years ago, the Congress made a decision to reg-
ulate natural gas production and delivery, and the net result is that prices are
so low that the producers in Louisiana and Texas won't send their natural gas,
which they own, to States like Ohio and Michigan and Illinois and Indiana,
923
