[204]
April 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
There wasn't unanimity at the outset, but by having, as I recall, three or four
NSC meetings, we resolved those differences. At the outset there were differences,
but when we got through, there was unanimity on what we decided.
MR. SEVAREID. There is one more short question on this. It was the complaint
of many people who worked with President Johnson on the Vietnam war that
he never had time to read any of the books about Indochina, the French experi-
ence, the Vietminh movement, and so on. Have you ever had time to read the
books about that part of the world?
The President. I, over the years, have read four to five books, but I have had
the experience of sitting on a committee on appropriations that had involvement
going back as early as 1953 with economic-military aid to South Vietnam. And
those hearings on appropriations for economic and military aid would go into
the problems of South Vietnam, Laos, Cambodia, South Vietnam, in great
depth.
So, this outside reading, plus the testimony, plus the opportunity to visit South
Vietnam, I think, has given me a fairly good background on the history as well as
the current circumstances.
MR. SEVAREID. Do you get time to read any books now?
THE PRESIDENT. Oh, I read, Eric, about one a month.
PRESIDENT'S SCHEDULE
[4.] MR. SCHIEFFER. Mr. President, I had planned to ask you this later, but
perhaps it follows Eric's question, sort of related to this subject, and that is
covering you.
You are a very active President. You travel a lot. You take part in a lot of
public activities. You have said that you want to take the Presidency to the
people. But do you really have time to give serious thought to questions? When
do you reserve time to just think about things? I suppose the question is, do you
feel sometimes that you devote too much time to secondary things?
THE PRESIDENT. Not at all. I am a very well organized person. When I am in
the office, I have a very set routine that gives me the opportunity to read
position papers, recommendations, outside material.
And if you spend, as I do, on the average of 14 to 15 hours a day on the job
in one way or another, I think I do have an opportunity to get not only the
input from Government people but an input from people on the outside.
Now, it is true I will travel some, but I happen to think it is wholesome and
548
