April 16
[188]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
188
Message to the Senate Transmitting a Protocol to the
International Coffee Agreement of 1968. April 16, 1975
To the Senate of the United States:
I am transmitting herewith, for the advice and consent of the Senate to
acceptance, the Protocol for the Continuation in Force of the International
Coffee Agreement of 1968, as Extended. This Protocol, which was adopted
by the International Coffee Council in its Resolution Number 273 of Septem-
ber 26, 1974, contains no operative economic provisions, but preserves the struc-
ture of the International Coffee Organization through September 30, 1976,
or up to 12 months beyond that date if the conclusion of a new Coffee Agree-
ment has progressed to the degree specified in the Protocol. Without this Pro-
tocol, the Coffee Organization would expire on September 30, 1975. The United
States signed the Protocol at the United Nations Headquarters on January 15,
1975.
The purpose of this extension is to continue the International Coffee Organi-
zation as a source of statistical information and technical studies on develop-
ments in world coffee markets and as a forum for discussion and eventual
negotiation of a new coffee agreement whenever producing and consuming
countries determine such action would best serve their common interests. This
Protocol will preserve twelve years of institutional cooperation between seven-
teen major consuming countries (of which the U.S. is the largest) and forty-
two producing nations of the developing world who rely on coffee exports
for a significant portion of their foreign exchange earnings. In 1973, for example,
coffee exports from ten major Latin American producers earned over $2.5 billion
and six Latin American countries obtained more than 20 percent of their for-
eign exchange from coffee. In that same year, the United States imported 37.3
percent of all coffee in world trade and 39.1 percent of Latin American coffee
exports.
I believe that continued United States participation in the Coffee Agreement
will serve both our foreign policy and our consumer interests. It will reaffirm
our commitment to cooperate with the developing countries on this matter of
vital interest to them. As the largest consuming nation, it will guarantee us a
substantial voice in discussions and negotiations for a new coffee agreement.
Preliminary work for such negotiations started in early January 1975. I am
hopeful that the constructive spirit which has characterized the International
493
