February 11
[85]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
85
The President's News Conference of
February 11, 1975
THE PRESIDENT. Won't you please sit down. And before responding to the first
question, I do wish to thank Governor Bennett and the other Governors who
were here with me in Topeka. I wish to thank the people of the State of Kansas
and, particularly, the people in the Topeka area for the very wonderful and very
warm reception. It has been a very good day.
Mr. Morgan [Ray Morgan, Kansas City Star].
THE MIDDLE EAST
[1.] Q. Mr. President, your energy and economic concerns will go down
the drain for naught if we have war in the Middle East. Could you please give
us your latest information on Dr. Kissinger's negotiations in the Middle East
and whether or not you think there is the possibility of a quick settlement in the
wake of those negotiations?
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Morgan, the Secretary of State left Sunday night for a
most important mission in the Middle East. He will be gone approximately
10 days, visiting a number of Arab as well as Israeli—and he will be more or
less on an exploratory mission. We believe that the possibility exists for a step-
by-step progress in the Middle East, but no one can be certain in that very
volatile and very difficult area.
The Secretary of State will come back, hopefully, with some encouraging
news. And then, if the news is encouraging, he will probably go back shortly
thereafter for what we would hope would be a settlement on a step-by-step basis.
It is my judgment that unless progress is made, there is a very serious prospect
of another war in the Middle East which, if it did occur, of course raises the
possibility of another oil embargo. I would hope that by the Secretary of State's
efforts that we can make this progress, avoiding another conflict and avoiding
the prospects of another oil embargo.
The Secretary of State has my full backing. I think we are fortunate to have
a person with that knowledge, that dedication, and that record of success. So,
I am an optimist. But it is a difficult assignment, and I think he deserves the full
support of the American people and the Congress, because it is in our benefit
and the world as a whole.
221
