April 3
[166]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Paris peace accords, that we would make military hardware available to the
South Vietnamese Government on a replacement, one-for-one basis. Unfortu-
nately, we did not carry out that promise.
Q. Well, are you blaming Congress for this, then?
THE PRESIDENT. I am not assessing blame on anyone. The facts are that in
fiscal year 1974, there was a substantial reduction made by the Congress in the
amount of military equipment requested for South Vietnam.
In fiscal year 1975, the current fiscal year, the Administration asked for $1,400
million in military assistance for South Vietnam. Congress put a ceiling of $1
billion on it and actually appropriated only $700 million.
Those are the facts. I think it is up to the American people to pass judgment on
who was at fault or where the blame may rest. That is a current judgment.
I think historians in the future will write who was to blame in this tragic situa-
tion. But the American people ought to know the facts. And the facts are as I
have indicated.
I think it is a great tragedy, what we are seeing in Vietnam today. I think it
could have been avoided. But I am not going to point a finger. The American
people will make that judgment. I think it is more important for me and the
American people and the Congress, in the weeks and months ahead, to do what
we can to work together to meet the problems of the future.
And that is what I intend to do, and I will go more than halfway with the
Congress in seeking to achieve that result. I think we have the capability in
America. I think we have the will to overcome what appears to be a disaster in
Southeast Asia. To the extent that I can, I hope to give that leadership.
Q. Mr. President, regardless of what caused it, it seems apparent that for the
first time in our Nation's history, the enemy is about to win a war where
Americans fought and died. Do you think that those 55,000 lives were wasted?
THE PRESIDENT. I do not think they were wasted, providing the United States
had carried out the solemn commitments that were made in Paris at the time
American fighting was stopped in South Vietnam, at a time when the agree-
ment provided that all of our troops should be withdrawn, that all of our POW's
should be returned. If we had carried out the commitments that were made at
that time, the tragic sacrifices that were made by many-those who were killed,
those who were wounded-would not have been in vain. But when I see us not
carrying through, then it raises a quite different question.
Q. Is that a yes, then, sir?
THE PRESIDENT. I still think there is an opportunity to salvage the situation in
Vietnam, and if we salvage it, giving the South Vietnamese an opportunity to
421
