January 7
[22]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
It was once said that many of Britain's battles were won on the playing fields
of Eton. We could also say-and I think those of us who have had the experience
can say it with great conviction—that amateur athletics has developed much of
the muscle that has built and defended and will continue to defend this country.
And though a young person might not go to college, no youngster grows up
in America today without some competitive sport. Sports are not only a prepara-
tion for life, their spirit is part of the very essence of the American competitive
system.
We have a saying in my old home State of Michigan, Mark. As the lakes,
rivers, and ponds freeze over, the sight of eager children skimming over the
ice is a very common one. And if you asked a young boy or a young girl how he
or she ever learned to ice skate, the answer out our way is very, very simple:
"I got up when I fell down.”
It is my judgment that we have got to get "up" here in America. As a nation,
we must be physically and mentally fit, because the times demand that we not
only compete but that we excel. And we must do it with enthusiasm, the
enthusiasm found more prominently on the fields of sport.
Emerson once said, "Nothing great was ever achieved without enthusiasm."
This is a time for greatness in our Nation and especially for enthusiasm.
In this spirit, Dr. Chapman, I accept the National Collegiate Athletic Asso-
ciation's 1975 Theodore Roosevelt Award. I accept it not for what I might have
achieved in the past, but for what I will strive to accomplish with the help of all
Americans in the future.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:57 p.m. in the Shera-
ton-Park Room at the Sheraton-Park Hotel. In his
opening remarks, he referred to Dr. Alan J. Chap-
man, president of the National Collegiate Athletic
Association, and entertainer Art Linkletter, master
of ceremonies. Dr. Chapman presented the Presi-
dent with the association's Theodore Roosevelt
Award, given annually to a distinguished citizen
who participated in varsity athletics in college.
Also honored at the dinner were John R.
Baiorunos, Patrick C. Haden, Randy L. Hall,
Jarrett T. Hubbard, and Tony G. Waldrop, the top
five senior student-athletes of 1974; Robert S.
Folsom, Billy M. Jones, William J. Keating, Ralph E.
O'Brien, and Comdr. Philip J. Ryan, USN, former
student-athletes who received awards for career
achievement; and 80 student-athletes who received
postgraduate scholarships.
"Marcus L. Plant, professor of law at the University of Michigan and president of the NCAA 1967-69.
23
