April 9
[177]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
177
Remarks to Participants in the National Explorer Presidents'
Congress of the Boy Scouts of America. April 9, 1975
Mr. Reneker, members of the National Executive Board, President Wright,
Explorers:
Let me say it is a very great privilege, a very high honor to have the oppor-
tunity of joining you at this historic house in this wonderful site, and I wel-
come each and every one of you to the White House.
You know, it is good to have all you Explorers here, because the more I
travel, the more I read, the more I listen, I am absolutely convinced our coun-
try—yours and mine-needs your youthful vision, your enthusiasm, and obvi-
ously, your idealism.
As we read history, as we look at the present, America has always been a
nation with the promise of a better tomorrow, regardless of our present diffi-
culties, either at home or abroad. As I look at this group-2,000 out of 500,000
Explorers—you obviously represent the hope of tomorrow.
A few years ago, when I was the minority leader of the House of Repre-
sentatives, I had the distinct honor and great privilege of serving as chairman
of your annual congress here in the Nation's Capital. And as I recall, that
particular get-together had the same flavor, the same atmosphere as a national
political convention. And I must say that participation by me in that gather-
ing convinced me beyond any doubt whatsoever that young people ought to
participate, not stand on the side lines and be critical.
I know very well that a good many young people—and Mrs. Ford and I
have four children, now from the age of 25 to 17—that young people, for a
period of time, were very disillusioned, very concerned, and felt that their
country had let them down or that our system wasn't working. And therefore,
they had a tendency to stand back and not get into the ball game, so to speak.
Well, I didn't agree with that point of view then because, then as now,
we need the maximum effort, participation, dedication of young people such
as yourselves. Don't stand on the side lines. Be a part of this great government,
whether it is at the local, the State, or the Federal level.
I don't like to repeat speeches, and I won't, except to tell you one story that
I told a group of young people yesterday, whom I met out here in the Rose
Garden.
455
