[15]
January 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
and the supplementary income from this source has diminished in importance
at a time when net farm income is near an all-time high.
It is, therefore, my earnest opinion that this bill is both unnecessary and
unjustified, and on that basis I withhold my approval.
The White House,
16
January 3, 1975.
GERALD R. FORD
Memorandum of Disapproval of a Bill To Restrict Imports
of Filbert Products. January 4, 1975
[Dated January 3, 1975. Released January 4, 1975]
I AM withholding my approval from H.R. 2933, a bill which would amend
the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act to make existing grade and quality
restrictions on certain imported commodities applicable to imported filberts.
In my judgment, the bill would be unfair to the American consumer and the
American farmer, as well as prejudicial to the interests of American trade policy.
H.R. 2933 would be unfair to the consumer because it could unnecessarily
increase prices for filbert products. Existing law already requires all imported
foodstuffs to meet health standards prescribed under the Food and Drug Act.
The bill could also produce unfair consequences for the farmer by causing the
loss of some of his important markets abroad. It could result at best in com-
paratively limited benefits for domestic producers while risking retaliation from
abroad against the larger volume of other products exported by our farmers.
Finally, the bill would be prejudicial to our trade policy because it would be
inconsistent with our obligations under the General Agreements on Tariffs and
Trade. It would erect a non-tariff trade barrier at a time when we are trying to
persuade other nations to dismantle theirs.
Although there are other commodities which are subject to the same statutory
restrictions that H.R. 2933 would impose on filberts, no new commodities have
been included in that list since January of 1971. I cannot in good conscience
support the addition of a new commodity just after signing into law the new
Trade Act which has a major aim of eliminating non-tariff trade barriers.
16
