[276]
May 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
vote of the Portuguese people. I think the Communist party got only 12½ percent
of the vote and the non-Communist parties got the rest. But, unfortunately, that
vote has not as of this time had any significant impact on those that control the
government, but nevertheless we approve of the political philosophy of the
people of Portugal. We are concerned with some of the elements in the govern-
ment.
MR. MACNEIL. Mr. President, could I come back to the Congressional question
for a moment. Are you saying that as a result of the trends you see now in the
Congress that you are no longer, as you were at your press conference on April 3,
frustrated by the restrictions Congress has placed on the Chief Executive?
THE PRESIDENT. I said this was the beginning, perhaps, of a new era.
MR. MACNEIL. Could it lead to the Congress reversing itself on the War
Powers Act?
THE PRESIDENT. I doubt that. I think the Congress felt that the War Powers
Act worked reasonably well in the Mayaguez incident. But there are some other
limitations and restrictions imposed by Congress which I think are counter-
productive or not helpful—for example, the aid cutoff to Turkey. Turkey is a
fine ally in NATO. We have had over a long period of time excellent political
and diplomatic relations with Turkey. I am working very hard, for example, to
try and get the Congress to remove that limitation on aid to Turkey.
We have been successful in the Senate. We hope to do so in the House. But there
are some others, plus that, that I hope we can modify or remove in order for the
President to act decisively, strongly, in conjunction with the Congress, but not
hamstrung by the Congress.
MR. DE SEGONZAC. Mr. President, the Europeans have been deeply struck by a
poll recently indicating that the American people would only accept military
intervention to defend Canada and no other country. Now, this seems to indicate
a deep sense of isolationism or at least neo-isolationism, and I wonder what you
feel about that question, what you think of that poll, and how you think you can
react against that trend in your own country?
THE PRESIDENT. I am positive that that poll was an aftermath of our involve-
ment in Vietnam. I believe that the United States, the American people, will
completely live up to any international commitments that we have. That poll
was taken in isolation, so to speak. It was not related to any crisis or any challenge.
I think the record of the American people in the past is one that clearly indicates
we will respond to a challenge, we will meet a crisis and will live up to our com-
mitments. The history is better than some poll taken in isolation.
708
