[145]
March 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
Bearing in mind our common interest in continued peace and security in the
world, I think we must strive to eliminate misunderstandings and any narrow
differences which sometimes, unfortunately, arise between us.
The history of this relationship indicates that we have made an excellent start.
I am sure-it is my conviction that it will be successful in the future.
I raise my glass to your health, Mr. Prime Minister, and to the bridge between
our two countries. May it continue to facilitate cooperation, understanding, and
friendship between our two peoples.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:12 p.m. in the State
Dining Room at the White House.
Prime Minister Bijedic spoke in Serbo-Croatian.
His remarks were translated by an interpreter as
follows:
Mr. President, gentlemen:
Allow me to thank you for the words of welcome
and friendship addressed to me and my associates.
Our visit to the United States of America constitutes
a further expression of mutual desire for the pro-
motion of friendship and cooperation between our
two countries, a friendship established upon long-
standing tradition and alliance during two world
wars.
Our visit to your country is taking place at the
moment when you have started preparations for the
Bicentennial of the United States, the anniversary
of the day on which, as the result of the struggle
of American people against colonialism and foreign
domination, the Declaration of Independence was
adopted.
Many years later, my country, too, went through
the liberation, war, and revolution. I accentuate this
because both of our peoples aspired toward the
same objective-to live in freedom and independ-
ence, to freely determine their destiny and vigilantly
guard it.
I shall call forth, Mr. President, another date in
the history of the relations between our two coun-
tries. That is the year 1881, the year in which the
first interstate agreement was concluded-the trade
agreement between the United States of America
and Serbia signed at Belgrade in October 1881,
which is still in force.
Rare are today bilateral agreements which have
stood a test of time. Our two countries have ex-
perienced together the most severe historic tests of
this century, fighting as allies against the joint
enemies.
Over the whole period following the Second
World War, they have continually voiced their
determination to promote all-round equitable co-
operation and mutual relations, for their own bene-
fit and in the broader interest.
Particularly important for the development of re-
lations between Yugoslavia and the United States
was the exchange of visits between the two Presi-
dents in 1970 and 1971 and the visit of Secretary
of State Dr. Kissinger to Belgrade a few months ago.
We are highly appreciative, Mr. President, of the
message you have addressed to President Tito and
in which you have clearly set forth the desire of the
United States to continue the policy of good rela-
tions with Yugoslavia.
Likewise, we highly appreciate your acceptance
of the invitation extended by President Tito to visit
Yugoslavia in the course of this year.
We are confident that this confirms once again the
preparedness of your Government and your own,
Mr. President, for the continuation and promotion
of mutual, friendly relations. We will welcome
you in Yugoslavia as a dear guest.
I share, Mr. President, your view and that of your
Government that relations between the United States
and Yugoslavia have been developing successfully,
regardless of the differences of stances and views in
respect to some international issues.
It is our sincere desire that these differences,
wherever it is possible, be reduced through mutual
efforts, more frequent contacts, mutual understand-
ing and respect for the positions of the other
side.
Yugoslavia, as an independent, socialist, and
nonaligned country, has a constant interest in
developing relations with the United States, based
on principles of the respect for sovereignty, equality,
and noninterference; that is, the principles that are
outlined in the joint statement of the Presidents of
Yugoslavia and the United States, signed at Wash-
ington in 1971.
Yugoslavia is particularly concerned that the solu-
tions for the existing hotbeds of military conflicts,
which at any moment may become sources of new
and even more difficult large-scale international
crises, be sought through negotiation and full respect
for the Charter and resolutions of the United Nations,
as well as through agreements reached between the
parties concerned.
Mr. President, in expressing my thanks for the in-
vitation extended to me to visit your beautiful
382
