[39]
January 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
tional product, this would be a profoundly different country. It would be a
terribly different country in which we would live.
The tax burden of the average American family and business would be
staggering. To control the economy that much, government would have to exert
ever-increasing direction over the daily lives of its citizens. Much of our incen-
tive, much of our enterprise, and much of our freedom, as I see it, would be
stilled in private business, and private business efforts would be largely stifled.
It would be my best judgment that our economy would stagnate.
We cannot allow this to happen. I think we have got to turn this trend
around. To the extent that I possibly can, I intend to do so.
In that regard, I repeat here tonight the pledge I made to the Congress last
week: Except for energy, I will ask for no new spending programs and will fight
to reduce the growth of Federal spending before it is too late.
That sounds very logical, and I happen to think it is. In pure economic terms
it definitely is; but in the real world where politics, idealism, emotionalism, and
confusion all mix together with economics, I must confess, it is not as easy
as it might seem.
The American people are very generous. We are a compassionate people,
and with justifiable pride we have prided ourselves on our responsiveness to
those in our society less fortunate than ourselves. But as we are now beginning
to realize, we cannot give away any more than what we have.
Whenever I make that statement I am reminded of something I have used
in speeches before, but I think it is perfectly appropriate here: A government
big enough to give us everything we want is a government big enough to take
from us everything we have. The Government cannot, in my judgment, over-
spend year after year without doing drastic damage to the economy and harm
every one of our citizens.
Now, I fully realize that many in the Congress will find it very difficult to
support spending limitations in programs that they have advocated and sincerely
believed in over the years. But in the crisis that we face right now, I think it
has to be done.
And I might say—to provide some incentive and cooperation—as a starter I
intend to invite to the White House, at their earliest convenience, members of
the new budget committees of the Senate and House to confer with me on the
problems that I have outlined.
To continue the course that we are on is wrong; we definitely need a redirec-
tion. And this brings me to the second of the three trends, the direction of
defense policy.
78
