June 26
[358]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
supplier of enriched uranium, and develop a strong private enrichment industry
to help bolster the national economy.
So, it is with pleasure and hope that I sign the message to go to both the House
and the Senate and ask the Congress to move as rapidly as possible in order that
we can achieve the objectives which are so important.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:23 a.m. at a cere-
mony in the Cabinet Room at the White House.
Earlier in the day, the President met at the White
358
House with Congressional members of the Joint
Committee on Atomic Energy to brief them on the
proposals contained in the message.
Special Message to the Congress Proposing Legislation To
Increase Enriched Uranium Production. June 26, 1975
To the Congress of the United States:
Every so often, a Nation finds itself at a crossroads. Sometimes, it is fortunate
and recognizes it has a choice. Sometimes, it does not.
We are at such a crossroads in America today.
The course we select will touch the lives of most of us before the end of this
century and surely affect the lives of generations of Americans yet to come.
Today, I am asking the Congress to join me in embarking this Nation on
an exciting new course which will help assure the energy independence we seek
and a significantly strengthened economy at the same time.
I am referring to the establishment of an entirelyl new private industry in
America to provide the fuel for nuclear power reactors—the energy resource
of the future. I am referring to uranium enrichment which is presently a Fed-
eral Government monopoly.
Without question, our energy future will become more reliant on nuclear
energy as the supplies of oil and natural gas diminish.
The questions we must answer are (1) whether the major capital require-
ments for constructing new uranium enrichment facilities will be paid for by
the Federal taxpayer or by private enterprise, and (2) whether a major new
and expanding segment of our economy will be under the control of the Fed-
eral Government or the private sector.
The private sector has already demonstrated its capability to build and op-
erate uranium enrichment facilities under contracts with the Federal Govern-
ment. Since it is also willing to provide the capital needed to construct new
uranium enrichment plants, I am asking the Congress to enact legislation to
883
