[220]
April 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
While the spending problems we face are enormous and very, very serious, I
agree with the Chamber that there is far more right with America than what
is wrong with our great country. I most certainly agree with your president
that we have taken for granted the things that are right with America so long,
that we must remind ourselves as to what is right with America.
An outstanding example is the fact that under our free enterprise system, we
consistently produce higher quality, safer, and more reliable goods than any
economy which operates under rigid government control. Planned economies
simply do not achieve the quality or the low price of goods which are the fruits
of an open and competitive system. Buyers overwhelmingly prefer products of
the free enterprise system. Where business competes for the buyer's dollar, the
result is better products.
We tend to overlook, also, that the survival of American business is directly
dependent on its ability to provide the largest number of consumers with goods
of high quality, utility, and safety at attractive prices. The self-interest of
American business demands that it please customers, while there is no such
automatic mechanism of consumer protection in controlled economies.
We are a dynamic society with a dynamic economy. But this requires that
we as people ensure that our governmental institutions are responsive to chang-
ing conditions. Let me discuss with you on this occasion one function performed
by a government—yes, even ours-which requires our attention and is in need
of reform, and that is regulation.
In discussing regulation, let me say we should be prepared to listen care-
fully to the case of those who might be injured by deregulation or changes in
regulations. But we must make our decisions in terms of what benefits all of
us. I have confidence that our system can make the changes that are required to
meet the challenges of our dynamic society.
It may be useful at this point to distinguish between the two broad kinds of
government regulation. First, there are regulations designed to deal with the
competitive performance of such industries as railroads, trucking, airlines,
utilities, and banking. This type of regulation controls rates, the right to serve
specific markets, and competitive practices.
One of the most impressive outcomes of the September summit Conference
on Inflation was the nearly unanimous agreement among all participants of
all persuasions that there are tremendous efficiency losses, reductions in produc-
tivity, and unnecessary costs to the economy from some aspects of this kind of
regulation. Almost without exception, the conferees recommended reform or
elimination of obsolete and unnecessary regulations.
600
