[198]
April 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
Today, two centuries later, the President of 50 united States and 213 million
people stands before a new generation of Americans who have come to this
hallowed ground.
In these two centuries, the United States has become a world power. From
a newborn nation with a few ships, American seapower now ranges to the most
distant shores. From a militia of raw recruits, the American military stands on
the frontlines of the free world. Our fliers and our planes eclipse one another
in power and in speed with each succeeding new breed of airmen and aircraft.
From a nation virtually alone, America is now allied with many free worlds
[nations] in common defense. The concepts of isolationism and "Fortress
America” no longer represent either the reasoning or the role of the United
States foreign policy.
World leadership was thrust upon America, and we have assumed it. In
accepting that role, the United States has assumed responsibility from which it
cannot and will not retreat. Free nations need the United States, and we need
free nations. Neither can go it alone.
There are some in the world who still believe that force and the threat of
force are the major instruments of national and international policy. They
believe that military supremacy over others is [the] logical and legitimate
[end] of their revolutionary doctrines. Such aims have left a trail of tyranny,
broken promises, and falsehood.
Tyranny by any other name is still tyranny. Broken promises in any other
language are still promises unkept. And falsehood by any other description is
still a lie.
This is not the rhetoric of the past. It is reason about the present because
history keeps repeating itself. Force as an instrument of national and inter-
national policy continues to be a major instrument of change in the world.
Reasonable societies and reasonable people must do all in their power to recon-
cile all threats to peace. Now is a time for reconciliation, not recrimination. It is
a time of reconstruction, not rancor.
The world is witnessing revolutionary technological, economic, and social
change—a massive and rapid breaking of barriers.
We, all men and women of all lands, must master this change. We must
make this revolution an evolution-to make and accept change with greater
order and greater restraint.
How can we achieve, how can we accomplish this evolution? It is not enough
to call upon material resources. No material resources are sufficient to themselves
to inspire the continued confidence of men in reasonable change. We must
530
