[374]
July 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
they can locally or inside their own State borders at free market prices. Regions
like the Ohio Valley that do not have an adequate local supply of natural gas
must suffer the consequences.
Let me add a postscript to that, if I might. In the Congress, for the years I was
there, I got to know a lot of people from Texas in the House and a lot of people
from Louisiana in the House.
And they used to say to us, "How stupid can some people be. We have got all
the natural gas down here, more than we can use, but we aren't going to sell it
to Michigan and Ohio unless you pay a fair price."
And they said, "If you don't agree through deregulation to pay a fair price,
we are going up and get those jobs and those factories from Michigan and Ohio
and bring 'em down to Texas and Louisiana." And that is what they are doing.
I don't understand it. And Congress sits and twiddles its thumbs and does
nothing, and most of the opposition comes from our Northern States in the
House as well as in the Senate.
Well, wait until you have the shortage in Ohio. I don't know about Kentucky,
but in Ohio and Michigan and Indiana, wait till we have that shortage this
winter. If we have even a slightly colder winter this year than the last two, we
will have interruptible service taken away from industry so that homes will be
kept warm and the factories will have to close down and jobs won't be available.
It is just that simple, and all that gas in Louisiana and Texas is just sitting
there. I don't understand it.
Well, starting with my State of the Union Address, I have repeatedly urged
the Congress to deregulate natural gas and to expand the supply of it nationwide.
But the Congress has done nothing, as I have said. So, the Ohio River Valley
and Michigan and Kentucky and Indiana and other areas will continue to pay
the price for Government overregulation.
To the extent that I can—and I hope you will help—I will prod the Congress
to take action removing these archaic regulations that make life harder for the
millions of American workers, businessmen, and taxpayers.
Last week, I met with 24 key Members of the House and Senate, Democratic
and Republican, to seek modernization of our cumbersome regulatory agencies.
We reached agreement in many broad areas, and I am confident that together,
the Congress and the White House, we will cut out a good bit of this unnecessary
redtape that's now plaguing our citizens in all 50 States.
I can't think of a better gift for America in our Bicentennial year. You know,
after all, government was intended to help us in the pursuit of happiness—not
to set up obstacles.
918
