June 14
[329]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
I know there is much that I will remember about this visit. But perhaps the
one thing that best sums up the spirit of this day is the simple but deeply moving
statue here at Fort Benning of an American combat infantryman. The statue, as
you well know, bears the Infantry's motto, only two short words. But it speaks
volumes for the courage, for the sacrifice that the American fighting man has
always demonstrated. The motto is, "Follow me." It is this "Follow me" spirit,
this sense of courage, leadership, and sacrifice that has characterized the Ameri-
can Army from its beginning as a ragged band of citizen volunteers, united only
in love of liberty and a deep, deep sense of duty.
Very few people thought that this citizens army had much of a future in 1775.
After all, the colonies had no allies and only limited industrial capacity. And the
adversary was the greatest global military power of the 18th century.
Yet, there were some who sensed from the start that for all its weaknesses and
handicaps, this was no ordinary army and that the goal it served was something
special, perhaps even unique, in the annals of history.
On June 15, 200 years ago tomorrow, the Continental Congress chose a com-
mander for its new army—a tall, quiet Virginian. In his letter to his wife, Martha,
George Washington expressed his personal faith in the mission he and his
fledgling army were about to undertake together. And he wrote as follows: "It is
a kind of destiny that has thrown me upon this service." And that destiny saw
Washington and his men march from the harsh winter and privation of Valley
Forge to the ultimate victory of Yorktown.
That first American Army faced many obstacles and some defeats. But it had
one enduring trait: It wouldn't quit. The mainstay of Washington's revolu-
tionary force was the will to be free and the willingness to pay the price of free-
dom. Today's Army, exemplified here at Fort Benning, continues that great
tradition. And we thank you all.
Although we still enjoy the freedom which the Continental Army won for us,
we have also learned, over the years, that freedom is never free. Each subsequent
generation, in its own time and in its own way, has answered the call to service
and sacrifice to preserve our legacy of liberty.
Today's generation is no exception. And one of the most important contribu-
tions it has made, physically and morally: a strong United States Army, an army
that is worthy of the heritage of two centuries of heroes.
Like the men of 1775, you who serve today are volunteers. With your comrades
in other services, you are the guardians of both our peace and our liberties. For if
we are to avoid war, we must maintain a credible and ready fighting force on
hand, ready. Today's realities have increased rather than reduced our need for a
815
