[209]
April 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
addition, over 300,000 public service jobs are being funded under the Compre-
hensive Employment and Training Act, as amended.
The passage of the Comprehensive Employment and Training Act in Decem-
ber, 1973, was a landmark development in the decentralization of manpower
program design and operation responsibilities to State and local government
units. This report reviews implementation activities by the Departments of La-
bor and Health, Education, and Welfare in 1974. It also reviews some prelim-
inary findings about the operation of this important work.
The report also analyzes the rapidly changing employment situation of women
workers, exploring the significant economic role of women in recent years in an
expanding number of occupations. The proclamation of 1975 as International
Women's Year makes this a particularly appropriate time to encourage members
of the legislative and executive branches of Government as well as the general
public to study the role of women in the labor force.
Among other important questions explored in this year's Manpower Report
is the relative efficiency of public service employment programs as a means of
countering cycles of high unemployment. While there is some evidence that pro-
grams providing public sector jobs can relieve individual hardships and offer
some short-term relief to areas experiencing substantial unemployment, it is con-
siderably less certain that such programs can exert significant positive impact on
national unemployment levels.
On the other hand, the size, skills, and employment levels of the Nation's
work force are affected by changes in programs, policies, and procurement at all
levels of government. This year's Manpower Report, therefore, includes an
interim review of some recent research findings on the development of methods
to determine the manpower impact of Government program and policy changes
both at the national level and in areas where local firms have received important
procurement contracts.
The White House,
April 24, 1975.
NOTE: The report is entitled "Manpower Report of
the President-Including Reports by the U.S. De-
partment of Labor and the U.S. Department of
GERALD R. FORD
Health, Education, and Welfare, Transmitted to the
Congress April 1975" (Government Printing Office,
349 pp.).
574
