[377]
July 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
formity, whether they come from massive government, massive management
and labor, massive education, or massive communications.
While we want the benefits of advancing technology, individual Americans
must never become coded ciphers in any central computer, unthinking parrots
of any ideological slogans, uncaring slaves of any automated assembly line.
Every citizen in our third century of freedom as a nation must have the personal
freedom to fulfill his or her potential in life, liberty, and in the pursuit of
happiness.
Many years ago, a Sunday school teacher taught me that the beauty of
Joseph's coat was its many colors. And the beauty of America is its many indi-
viduals, each of us a little different from the other. Freedom for everyone who
respects the freedom of others is the great goal which I see and commend to
my countrymen for the third century of American Independence. Freedom is
what the Fourth of July is all about.
I wish you all a grand and glorious day.
NOTE: The President recorded the statement for use on radio and television.
378
Statement on the 40th Anniversary of the National Labor
Relations Act. July 4, 1975
TODAY marks the 40th anniversary of the National Labor Relations Act, ac-
claimed as labor's "Bill of Rights."
This landmark act of Congress helped pave the way for millions of American
workers to share more fully in the fruits of their own labor and to unite with
one another in the strong bond of common interest and purpose. It provided
the basis for the resolution of disputes over union organization and the means
for settling union-management disputes.
Since the passage of this law on July 5, 1935, our Nation has moved from
confrontation to cooperation between management and labor and from pro-
tracted unrest to effective partnership. This partnership has fostered great eco-
nomic strength and progress which is unique among nations of the world.
For American workers, better pay, job security, pensions, and a system for
the orderly resolution of day-to-day disputes have been the legacy of the Na-
tional Labor Relations Act and its collective bargaining guarantees; for man-
agement, a more certain and stable industrial relations era.
928
