July 5
[381]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
380
Statement on Signing a Bill Providing for 24-Hour
Display of the Flag at Valley Forge State Park, Pennsylvania.
July 5, 1975
I HAVE signed S.J. Res. 98, which provides that the flag of the United States of
America may be flown for 24 hours of each day in Valley Forge State Park,
Valley Forge, Pa.
Enactment of this measure is a fitting tribute to the determination and valor
of the men who served in the Continental Army at Valley Forge. These men
endured the rigors of cold, disease, and starvation during the winter of 1777–
1778, to later fight and win the Battle of Monmouth, an important victory in
the struggle for independence. As we approach the year of our Nation's Bicen-
tennial anniversary, this joint resolution by Congress reminds us again of the
unselfish sacrifices made by many American men and women who have
served in our country's Armed Forces. They have fought to establish and
preserve, for Americans and free people everywhere, the right to liberty, justice,
and the pursuit of happiness.
NOTE: As enacted, S.J. Res. 98, approved July 4, 1975, is Public Law 94-53 (89 Stat. 259).
381
Toasts of the President and President Suharto of the
Republic of Indonesia. July 5, 1975
Mr. President:
I am greatly honored to have the opportunity of welcoming you on your visit
to the United States as a part of your world tour.
You visited the United States last, as I understand it, in 1970, and we all
recognize, of course, that through the years, you have been a very wise and
valued friend of the United States.
I recognize, as all of us do here from the United States, that you have
achieved a great deal for your country in the period during your Presidency.
The Indonesian people, we recognize, have developed a solid foundation to deal
with your nation's very complex challenges and the very difficult road, but in
the process of development, great progress has been made.
Admiring you, President Suharto, and your country, as I do, I have wanted
933
