March 17
[137]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
programs. Consistent with this goal, this legislation provides for gradually in-
creasing the responsibility of the States in the general aviation program. With
many States using new general aviation facilities to stimulate community de-
velopment, this is an appropriate step at this time.
The legislation I am proposing today also includes a separate measure to
adjust the revenues accruing to the Airport and Airway Trust Fund. These
adjustments are designed to generate financial contributions from the users
of the aviation system which more equitably match the system benefits they re-
ceive. In this connection, I am requesting that user revenues also finance the
direct costs of maintaining air navigation facilities.
I commend the Congress for initiating hearings on this important problem
and for its prompt attention to the extension of the airport and airway develop-
ment program. I have asked Secretary Coleman to work closely with the Con-
gress to insure speedy enactment of the aviation program I have proposed to meet
the challenges of a growing America.
The White House,
March 17, 1975.
GERALD R. FORD
137
Address at a University of Notre Dame Convocation.
March 17, 1975
Father Hesburgh, Governor Bowen, my former good friends and colleagues in
the Congress, Senator Birch Bayh and Senator Hartke, Congressman John
Brademas, distinguished public officials, honored faculty, members of the stu-
dent body, and distinguished guests—and I add our new Attorney General:
It is really a great privilege and a very high honor for me to have the oppor-
tunity of being in South Bend on the University of Notre Dame campus, but
I am especially grateful for the honor that has been accorded me this morning.
I really cannot express adequately my gratitude being made a member of the
Notre Dame family. I thank you very much.
I would be most remiss if I did not also express as strongly and as sincerely
as I can the gratitude that all of us have in the Government for the contributions
that have been made, not only in the program described by Father Hesburgh
but by his many other contributions. I say to you, Father Hesburgh, thank you
from the bottom of our hearts.
353
