May 24
[277]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
was truly an expert. And there would always be some variation. Inevitably, he
was right and I was wrong.
But I thank you very much, Charlie. As I look at the ship here-and Allie,
it brings back many great memories to me and, I am sure, to all of you.
The first assignment I had was the gunnery group down on the fantail. That
shows how trustworthy I was, see. They put me as far back as anybody could
go. [Laughter]
Well, I gradually worked my way up. Captain Hundt, who was a great
skipper, and Captain Ingersoll, who is in the finest traditions of the United
States Navy, saw to it that I got up on the bridge. I didn't contribute very much,
but I enjoyed the great inspiration of both Captain Hundt and Captain Ingersoll.
Fritz Deppe and I had a little stateroom. You would hardly call it one of any
fancy accommodations, would you, Fritz? I've forgotten who had the upper
and who had the lower bunk. [Laughter]
You know, those M.D.'s are always smarter than us politicians. But I can
remember many wonderful experiences. We used to play basketball. We'd lower
the elevator on the other side, on the port side, and we'd play basketball. That
was a hard thing to convince Captain Hundt and Captain Ingersoll of, that
it was going to not interfere with operational activities. But they were very
kind and understanding, and here is a picture—but we had some wonderful
times.
I remember very distinctly June 17, 1943, when we commissioned the ship
in Philadelphia. I recall with great memories the shakedown cruise down to
Trinidad. That was an exciting place. [Laughter]
I recall vividly the trip through the Panama Canal, and I will not tell the
whole story on that. The ship got through all right, but I wasn't sure I was
going to get through all right. [Laughter]
Then I recall that wonderful trip from San Diego to Pearl Harbor. We
loaded the ship up with a lot of submariners who had never been to sea. We
loaded it up with a lot of aircraft. We had hot bunks. Do any of you remember
that? When we got to Pearl Harbor, the ship needed a real scrubdown.
[Laughter] Then I recall our first operation off Mackin Island. We were all
scared to death.
Then I recall us going with the Bunker Hill down to Kavieng and Rabaul
on Christmas Day, New Year's Day, and a few days after New Year's Day-
that was thought then as one of the most daring operations at the time as far as
the Navy was concerned. We lost some very fine people, but we survived.
Then we gradually worked our way up the Carolines and the Marianas, et
721
