June 11
[319]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
We have got a great system. We have got wonderful people. We have an
industrial capacity that is not matched by any elsewhere in the world. And
if we keep the faith, I am convinced that America can and will be the leader
in the months and years ahead that we have been in the past.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:10 p.m. in the East Room at the White House to members of the council
attending a briefing by Administration officials.
319
Message to the Senate Transmitting Protocols To Extend
the International Wheat Agreement, 1971. June 11, 1975
To the Senate of the United States:
With a view to receiving the advice and consent of the Senate to ratification,
I transmit herewith the Protocols for the Further Extension of the Wheat Trade
Convention and of the Food Aid Convention, which together constitute the
International Wheat Agreement, 1971. These Protocols were formulated by a
Conference of Governments which met in London on February 14, 1975, and
were open for signature in Washington from March 25 through April 14.
I transmit also, for the information of the Senate, the report of the Depart-
ment of State with respect to the Protocols.
The Protocol for the Further Extension of the Wheat Trade Convention, 1971,
extends the Convention until June 30, 1976, and maintains the framework for
international cooperation in wheat trade matters. It also continues the existence
of the International Wheat Council.
The Protocol for the Further Extension of the Food Aid Convention, 1971,
also extends until June 30, 1976, commitments of parties to provide minimum
annual quantities of food aid to developing countries. It is the intention of the
United States not to deposit ratification of this Protocol unless the European
Economic Community becomes a party to the Protocol. The United States
formally recorded this intention by written declaration when the Protocol was
signed.
Both Protocols provide that instruments of ratification shall be deposited no
later than June 18, 1975. The Wheat Council may, however, grant an extension
of time to any signatory government that has not deposited an instrument of
ratification by that date.
It is my hope that the Senate will give early and favorable consideration to the
803
