[141]
March 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
141
Letter Accepting the Resignation of John H. Powell, Jr.,
Chairman and Commissioner of the Equal Employment
Opportunity Commission. March 19, 1975
Dear John:
I have your letter dated March 18, and as you request, I accept your resigna-
tion as Chairman of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, effective
today, and your resignation as a Commissioner, effective April 30, 1975. I
appreciate your willingness to stay on as a member of the Commission during
the next month to assist in the orderly transfer of authority to the Acting Chair-
man and to provide a period of time in which a well-qualified nominee to replace
you can be selected.
I want to take this opportunity to express my personal appreciation for your
dedicated service to our Nation. Under your Chairmanship, the Commission has
broken new ground, expanding the economic and social horizons of all our
citizens. I know that this has been a particularly challenging time for the Com-
mission, but your devotion to the goals of the Commission and to the present
and future well-being of every American has not faltered. You have earned their
thanks as well as my own.
As you depart the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, I want you
to know that you take with you my very best wishes for every future happiness
and success.
Sincerely,
GERALD R. FORD
[The Honorable John H. Powell, Jr., Chairman, Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, 1800 G Street,
N.W., Washington, D.C. 20506]
NOTE: Mr. Powell's letter of resignation read as
follows:
Dear Mr. President:
During the fifteen months that I have served as
Chairman of this agency, it has been my privilege
to participate in the ongoing effort to achieve equal
employment opportunity for all Americans.
During this time substantial progress has been
made in moving this Commission toward the effi-
ciency, effectiveness and fairness that I know you
want it to achieve. Unfortunately, this agency's
problems have for too long been ignored. Despite
this, recent commentary has focused upon superfi-
cialities. The underlying problems were addressed
quite eloquently in a letter dated March 5, 1975,
written by Clarence Mitchell to the Washington
Post.
My interest in the problems falling within
EEOC's mandate began long before December 28,
1973, the date upon which the commission desig-
nating me as Chairman was executed. During the
1960's, for example, I served as Special Counsel to
the Southern Christian Leadership Conference and
in 1963 I was one of many lobbying here in
Washington for what eventually became the first
comprehensive Civil Rights Act enacted during the
Twentieth Century (the 1964 Civil Rights Act, as
amended) of which Title VII is an integral part.
My colleagues on this Commission and the EEOC
staff, many of whom have given outstanding sup-
374
