July 1
[368]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
people of the Marianas District to enter into close union with the United States.
This action has now cleared the way for the submission of the Covenant to the
Congress of the United States for its formal consideration.
The passage by the Congress of the Joint Resolution approving the Northern
Mariana Islands Commonwealth Covenant will set into motion a series of pro-
gressive steps which will result in: the administrative separation of the Northern
Mariana Islands from the Government of the Trust Territory of the Pacific
Islands; the adoption of a locally-drafted and popularly-approved Constitution
for the Northern Mariana Islands; and finally, following the termination of
the Trusteeship Agreement for all of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands,
the conferral of Commonwealth status on the Northern Mariana Islands as a
territory of the United States as provided for by the Covenant.
The Covenant Agreement I am presenting to the Congress today was signed
on February 15, 1975, by the Marianas Political Status Commission for the
Northern Mariana Islands and by Ambassador F. Haydn Williams for the
United States. It is the result of more than two years of negotiations between
the United States and a broadly representative delegation from the Northern
Mariana Islands. Prior to and during the talks, the people of the Northern
Mariana Islands actively participated in open discussions of the various aspects
of the proposed relationship. Likewise, the Executive Branch consulted fre-
quently with members of the U.S. Congress regarding the progress of the nego-
tiations and actively sought the advice and guidance of the Congress, much of
which is reflected in the final provisions of the Covenant.
Following the signing, the Covenant was submitted to the Marianas District
Legislature for its review and approval. On February 20, 1975, the elected repre-
sentatives of the people of the Northern Mariana Islands through the District
Legislature unanimously approved the Covenant and requested the United
States to arrange for an early Plebiscite. The Plebiscite was carried out in ac-
cordance with an Order issued by the Secretary of the Interior on April 10,
1975. It was conducted under the supervision of my personal representative, Mr.
Erwin D. Canham, whom I appointed to serve as Plebiscite Commissioner. On
June 22, 1975, Commissioner Canham certified that 78.8 percent of the people
in the Marianas who voted had approved the Covenant.
The next step in the approval process is action by the U.S. Congress. The
enclosed Joint Resolution, when approved, will provide the authority to begin
the gradual and progressive implementation of the terms of the Covenant. This
process hopefully will have been completed by 1981 when we expect the Trustee-
ship over all of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands will have been ter-
899
