March 17
[138]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
UNEMPLOYMENT
[10.] Q. Mr. President, many of the steelworkers and autoworkers in your
State and in Indiana are still out of work. What can you say to them by the way
of encouragement? How far do they have to wait?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the biggest stimulant we could get to the economy
right now, which means more jobs for autoworkers and steelworkers, is to get
the Congress of the United States to move quickly to enact a substantial tax
reduction at the Federal level.
In January-I believe on January 15 in the State of the Union Message-I
urged a $16½ billion tax reduction bill as quickly as possible. It is now 2 months
and 2 days, and the Congress has not completed action on that tax reduction bill.
I hope that before Congress goes on its Easter recess, it will enact a tax reduction
bill like the one I proposed or one that is reasonably acceptable.
If we could get a tax reduction bill out of the Congress promptly, that would
be the best hope to stimulate the economy and to provide jobs for the auto-
workers and steelworkers, who are at the present time—particularly the auto-
workers-in desperate straits.
VICE PRESIDENT ROCKEFELLER
[11.] Q. Mr. President, you have hinted about it before but so far you have
stopped short of saying flatly that Vice President Rockefeller will be your run-
ning mate in 1976. My question, sir, is: Will he be?
The President. I did not think that I had ever equivocated on that, and if
the interpretation is that I have, then I want to straighten it out right now.
Nelson Rockefeller has been an exceptionally active and able Vice President.
I said when I nominated him I wanted him to be a partner. He has been, in the
responsibilities on the Rockefeller Commission, in his responsibilities in the
Domestic Council.
I think he deserves great praise. And I see no reason whatsoever that that
team should not be together in the campaign in 1976.
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
[12.] Q. Mr. President, in regard to the Rockefeller Commission's investiga-
tion into the CIA, would you, at any time, consider changing their mandate to
include an investigation of possible domestic activities by the CIA in regard to
assassination attempts?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me reiterate, as a preface, I will not condone—in fact,
I condemn—any CIA involvement in any assassination planning or action.
367
