May 6
[243]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
VIETNAM CONFLICT
[6.] Q. Even though the war is over, sir, there are many Americans who
must still live with the agonies that it caused them. I speak primarily of those
wounded and crippled and the families of those who died. In very human and
personal terms, how would you speak to them about the sacrifices that were
made?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, first, let me say very emphatically, they made a great
sacrifice. The 56,000 that died and the countless thousands who were wounded-
I honor and respect them, and their contribution was most significant. I think
their contribution was not in vain.
Five Presidents carried out a national policy. Six Congresses endorsed that
policy, which was a policy of our country. And they carried out that responsi-
bility as a member of our Armed Forces.
I think we should praise them, congratulate them, and we have an unbeliev-
able commitment to them in the future. All we can say is, thank you very much
for what they have done for freedom.
FOREIGN POLICY
[7.] Q. Mr. President, you mentioned that you spoke to some Virginia
Republicans the weekend before last, and at that time, you said that in 1976 we
will have some excellent results in foreign policy. After the past few weeks, we
can all use a little good news. Can you tell us just what you do expect in 1976?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. I think between now and the end of 1976, we are going
to make progress in the negotiations for a SALT II agreement. It hasn't been
finalized, but the atmosphere is good. There is going to be some hard negotiat-
ing, but I will approach that important meeting with Mr. Brezhnev aimed at
achieving results, and I think his attitude will reflect the same.
I think you are going to find a greater solidarity in Europe. I am going to
Europe the latter part of this month to strengthen that solidarity and to work on
a more unified position in solving our joint economic problems, in trying to solve
the energy problems that are serious for all of us.
It is my judgment that we can move ahead even in the Pacific. We will have
to not reassess, but assess how we can proceed. But it is my aim to tie more closely
together South Korea with the United States, to reaffirm our commitments to
Taiwan, to work more closely with Indonesia, with the Philippines, and with
other Pacific nations. These are the kind of, I believe, forward movements in
foreign policy that will be beneficial in the maintenance of peace.
Q. Mr. President, I would very much like to follow that up one second. Is your
645
