February 13
[90]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
as low as I think we can allow it to be and still meet the Government's mandated
obligations while mobilizing Federal resources to turn back the recession.
National recovery also depends on a decisive, purposeful American energy
policy—an American energy policy. And let me tick off some of the essentials
of that.
Only by cooperative efforts among the major industrial nations and a con-
structive dialog with the oil producers can an equitable oil price be restored.
Only by new mechanisms of cooperation and mutual support can the industrial
democracies safeguard their economies against a new embargo or international
financial disruption.
Only if the United States takes the lead now will our partners have any hope of
an ultimate solution or an incentive to commit themselves to cooperation with us.
And only with a determined national effort to reduce and to end our growing
dependence on imported oil can we and our partners recover control over our
economic destiny.
In meeting the energy challenge, I seek cooperation, not confrontation, with
the Congress. But in order for us to work together, the Congress must do more
than criticize. And until the Congress does something more, it will be part of
the
energy problem, not part of the solution.
The intent of governmental action is to provide the most efficient and the most
open system to enable the financial community to respond most effectively. But
you must help provide that leadership.
I happen to believe, and believe very strongly, that America will meet that
challenge. Your success will be essential to the renewal of our overall economic
system.
A security analyst once told me that the most frequent request made of your
profession is the following: "Don't tell me what to buy-tell me when."
Well, I would like to give a very personal answer to that question today: I buy
America. And I buy it now.
Thank you very much.
QUESTIONS
ENERGY PROGRAM AND UNEMPLOYMENT
[2.] Q. Mr. President, Frank Cappiello, Monumental Corporation. My ques-
tion is, would you agree to defer your energy taxation program if unemploy-
ment increases substantially this year from present levels—say to 9 or 9½, 10
percent?
243
