[144]
March 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
tutions will not be allowed to obscure the need for prudent management neces-
sary to safeguard depositors.
If the Congress will enact this bill into law, our financial institutions will bene-
fit from the ability to offer new services and enter new markets; and their
customers, both depositors and borrowers, will share these benefits.
Savings and loan associations and mutual savings banks will be permitted to
offer checking and negotiable orders of withdrawal (N.O.W.) accounts to
individuals and businesses, while diversifying a portion of their investments into
consumer loans, unsecured construction loans, commercial paper, and certain
high-grade private debt securities.
Commercial banks will be permitted to offer corporate savings accounts and
N.O.W. accounts. Credit unions will be permitted to offer mortgage loans to
members, make a wider range of loans at more varied interest rates, and to set
up an emergency loan fund on which to fall back.
To improve the availability of mortgage credit, commercial banks, savings
and loan associations, mutual savings banks, and other taxable financial institu-
tions will be granted a new tax incentive to enlarge their volume of mortgage
loans. Finally, the act provides for the gradual elimination of interest rate ceil-
ings on all types of savings over a five-and-one-half-year period.
This legislation differs in two principal ways from the bill previously sub-
mitted to the Congress:
First, the abolition of interest rate ceilings on deposits will still occur five-and-
one-half years after the passage of the act. However, prior to the removal of
ceilings, the Administration will conduct an intensive investigation to examine
the economic and financial picture at that time. The President and the Congress
will then have the opportunity, if appropriate, to make any final improvements
in the direction of the legislation.
Second, the mortgage tax credit is included in the act as before, but savings
and loan associations and mutual savings banks will be given a one-time option
until 1979 to decide when to substitute this tax measure for their current bad
debt loss deduction. By 1979, all savings institutions will be required to shift to
the mortgage interest tax credit.
While the amended bill contains modifications designed to emphasize the
areas of agreement produced during the hearings and recent discussions be-
tween Administration officials and the public, the basic objectives are to in-
crease the level and quality of service for the consumer saver, and to maintain or
expand the flow of credit to the housing sector.
380
