[397]
July 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
a fair chance to learn. CSU is not a school where the student can coast blithefully
through for 4 years and emerge with a degree but without competence.
The pursuit of excellence makes more valid the diplomas you are receiving
today. It is a service to the university, to the students, and to the community. You
welcomed the challenge, and you made the grade.
A united America requires opportunities for all citizens and the cooperation
of all races and all groups in our society. That is why I draw such encourage-
ment from the achievements of this graduating class, and I am delighted to be
a part of it even though I am not sure I earned it. You are the individuals who
will provide new energy, new ideas, and new leadership to help resolve the
plight of the cities.
If I can go once more to the days when I was going through high school and
college, there was a poem by a Victorian Englishman that was a favorite of
commencement orators at that time. Frankly, I heard it recited so many times
that I think I still may know it by heart.
The last part went something like this, and I quote:
It matters not how strait the gate,
How charged with punishments the scroll;
I am the master of my fate;
I am the captain of my soul.
Those sentiments served my generation, but maybe they sound a little old-
fashioned today. I don't know whether that is true or untrue, but I do know
this: America is a far better place today than it was when I graduated from
college 40 years ago. Because of you, and because of your determination, I do
believe in a better tomorrow for all Americans.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:50 p.m. in the Arie
Crown Theatre at McCormick Place. In his opening
remarks, he referred to Jeffrey R. Ladd, chairman of
the board of governors of Chicago State University,
Rev. Herbert Martin, and Dr. Benjamin H. Alex-
ander, president of the university, who conferred
an honorary doctor of laws degree on the President.
398
Remarks at the Walter Hagen Invitational Golf Tournament in
Traverse City, Michigan. July 12, 1975
LET ME thank all of you for the opportunity of coming up and playing in the
Walter Hagen golf tournament and to have the opportunity of being in Traverse
City.
982
