[64]
February 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
ENERGY
The fourfold increase in oil prices dictated by oil-exporting countries has
been a major factor in the sharp inflationary surge of the past year and a half.
It endangers the health of world trade and is creating significant financial and
economic disruption throughout the world. Among other things, the resulting
high fertilizer prices are hampering efforts to increase world agricultural pro-
duction, thereby aggravating the world food problem.
FUEL CONSERVATION.-I continue to believe that fuel conservation and a reduc-
tion of world oil prices are in the long-term interest of both consumer and
producer countries. Accordingly, I have proposed a series of stringent fuel con-
servation measures, including taxes on petroleum and natural gas offset by
income tax reductions, payments to low-income individuals, and increased aid
to State and local governments. On balance, this program will preserve con-
sumer and business purchasing power while strongly discouraging petroleum
consumption. Amendments to the Clean Air Act and other measures I have
proposed will contribute to substantial improvement in automobile gasoline
mileage and allow greater use of domestic coal for electric power generation,
thus further reducing our need for imported oil.
At the same time, my Administration is pursuing diplomatic efforts to alle-
viate financial and supply problems in the industrialized world.
DEVELOPMENT OF DOMESTIC ENERGY SOURCES.-Fuel conservation measures and
stronger diplomatic efforts are only part of the solution to the energy problem.
Vigorous efforts to speed development of our vast domestic energy resources—
particularly oil, gas, coal, and nuclear—are also essential. As part of these efforts,
my Administration has worked out a comprehensive plan for leasing the off-
shore oil and gas resources of our Outer Continental Shelf. Studies are under-
way to insure that development and production will be accomplished safely and
in an environmentally acceptable manner. We also seek responsible use of our
extensive Naval Petroleum Reserves in California and Alaska and are taking
steps to increase our use of our vast domestic coal reserves. These measures,
including workable and precise legislation regulating strip mining, seek a
proper balance between energy needs and environmental considerations. I will
propose legislation to assist certain utilities facing serious financial difficulties
and to encourage utilities to use fuels other than oil and natural gas. Increased
domestic supplies, including establishment of a strategic petroleum storage sys-
tem, coupled with fuel conservation, will help reduce our dependence upon
petroleum imports and our vulnerability to interruption of foreign supplies.
154
