April 25
[216]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
216
Remarks at a Special Leadership Conference of the National
Conference of State Legislatures. April 25, 1975
LET ME thank each and every one of you distinguished legislators. It's a privi-
lege and a pleasure to have the opportunity of saying a few words, looking
around and seeing some familiar faces.
It's been a great experience for me over the last year or more to speak to joint
sessions of four State legislative bodies-Louisiana, Kansas, New Hampshire,
and of course, my own State of Michigan. I've been very grateful for the warm
welcome and the opportunity, and I thank you very much. And I look forward
to an opportunity in other States in the months ahead.
Obviously, I want to welcome all of you to the East Room here and to just
kick off, I guess, the meetings that we will have here with members of my staff
following my observations and comments. I know it will be informative, and
I trust it will be very productive.
Let me say without any hesitation or qualification that I know and certainly
sympathize with the enormous problems that all of you are wrestling with in
trying to revitalize State government, especially in the legislative branch. As a
former legislative leader myself for a little over 25 years in the Congress, I have
some scars to prove it.
Actually, as I look back, those were wonderful years, despite the occasional
frustrations and the sure knowledge that no matter how long and how hard
you work, there would always be more problems than there were solutions.
I'm sure you've found this similarity at the State level. The legislative prob-
lems, whether they are at the Federal or State level, in my judgment, are very
nearly identical. And I'm sure that you would also agree that despite the frustra-
tions, the opportunity to do the job or to try and accomplish the results were
worth it in every way possible.
There is nothing more satisfying than the knowledge that, even in a small
way, you may have made life a bit better for the people you were elected to
serve. I don't have to tell you that. You've gone through it on a day-to-day basis,
and obviously, you wouldn't be here if you didn't feel exactly the same way now
and in the future.
The purpose of this meeting today is to let you know some of the things we're
trying to do at the Federal level to help make your State government as vital and
as responsive as possible. I hope it will also serve to keep up the very close,
585
