March 19
[146]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
country, the country of the people whose working
energies and technological advances are admired
throughout the world, I wish to emphasize our great
satisfaction that we are coming here at a time when,
in the relations between our two countries in many
fields-particularly the economic, scientific, and
cultural fields—a significant upward trend has been
registered.
The trade between the two countries-and I men-
tion this as an example-has increased by almost 60
percent in the course of 1 year. Significant bank-
ing and credit arrangements have been concluded.
Joint ventures and the volume of industrial coopera-
tion have been stepped up.
The same applies to the scientific and tech-
nological cooperation, the cooperation among uni-
versities, and the cultural exchange.
The celebration of the 200th anniversary of the
United States, in respect of which preparations are
in progress in Yugoslavia for participation in this
historic jubilee, constitutes one more opportunity to
146
display our constant concern for the continuation
of our traditional cooperation and friendship with
your country.
More than a million Americans of Yugoslav
descent, loyal citizens of the United States, live
here today. We feel proud that in the history of
the United States, in its struggle for independence
and the building up of its constitutionality, the
names of many individuals of Yugoslav extraction
have been inscribed, people who spared no effort
and sacrificed their lives to contribute to the well-
being of this country.
Allow me, esteemed Mr. President, to propose
this toast to your health, to the health of your
associates, for the progress and prosperity of the
United States of America, for the strengthening
and promotion of friendly relations and cooperation
between our two countries, for peace and progress
in the world, and for the same bridge that you
have toasted for, which has already lived there for
410 years.
Joint Statement Following Talks With Prime Minister
Bijedic of Yugoslavia. March 19, 1975
AT THE invitation of the United States Government, the President of the Fed-
eral Executive Council of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, Dzemal
Bijedic, accompanied by his wife, is visiting Washington, D.C., from March
19 to 21, 1975.
The President of the United States of America, Gerald R. Ford, gave a
luncheon in honor of the President of the Federal Executive Council at the White
House March 19. During their talks, the President of the Federal Executive
Council conveyed to the President of the United States a message from the
President of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, Josip Broz Tito. The
talks took place in an atmosphere of cordiality and openness.
The President of the Federal Executive Council will hold talks on bilateral
relations and international questions of interest to the two countries with the
Acting Secretary of State, Robert S. Ingersoll, who together with Mrs. Ingersoll
are giving a dinner on behalf of the United States Government in honor of the
President of the Federal Executive Council and Mrs. Bijedic March 19. The
President of the Federal Executive Council will meet with the Secretary of
Commerce, Frederick B. Dent, the President of the Export-Import Bank, Wil-
liam C. Casey, and the President of the Overseas Private Investment Corpora-
383
