April 25
[214]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
I think this complex is one of the finest things we have, as Republicans, in
the Nation's Capital. It means a great deal to each and every one of us individ-
ually, to the party. I think it is a good symbol of Republican togetherness. I am
delighted, of course, to see so many people here tonight. I just hope and trust
that we can have many, many more occasions like this in the Capitol Hill Club.
I think it is important for us to get together. I think it is vitally essential that
Republicans assemble in their own organization, their own club, and I appre-
ciate the fine leadership that Harold is giving, along with others, to make cer-
tain that the Capitol Hill Club can be a meeting place for all of us.
So, I thank you from the bottom of my heart, Harold, and all of you who
have contributed. I thank you on behalf of Betty, and I wish you all the very,
very best.
I can say for her, as well as for myself, it is wonderful to see all of you to-
night and to have the expression of friendship and support which is important
to me and to us in these very difficult times.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:03 p.m. at the
club. In his remarks, he referred to Donald E. John-
son, the artist who painted the portrait, and Harold
R. Collier, Representative from Illinois 1957-75 and
president of the club.
214
Special Message to the Congress Proposing Extension
and Revision of the General Revenue Sharing Program.
April 25, 1975
To the Congress of the United States:
I am today transmitting to the Congress proposed legislation to extend and
revise the State and Local Fiscal Assistance Act of 1972. The act, and the Gen-
eral Revenue Sharing program which it authorizes, expires on December 31,
1976. I strongly recommend that the Congress act to continue this highly suc-
cessful and important new element of American Federalism well in advance
of the expiration date, in order that State and local governments can make sound
fiscal plans.
THE VALUE OF FEDERALISM
The genius of American government is the Federal system of shared sov-
ereignty. This system permits and promotes creativity and freedom of action
579
