[204]
April 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. Every 4 years, Walter, the American people elect a President,
and they elect a Congress every 2 years, or most of the Congress every 2 years.
The American people, I think, have to make a judgment that the people they
elect are going to carry out, of course, domestic policy, but equally important,
foreign policy.
And the implementation of foreign policy inevitably means that you are
going to have intelligence gathering as well as operational activities by your
intelligence organization.
THE MIDDLE EAST
[7.] MR. CRONKITE. Can we move on to the Middle East now? Are you
reconciled to a Geneva meeting now, or would you still like to see some more
direct diplomacy in the step-by-step Kissinger pattern?
THE PRESIDENT. I think, following the very serious disappointment of the
last negotiations between Israel and Egypt, we are committed, at least in prin-
ciple, to going to Geneva.
Now, in the meantime, we are going through this process of reassessment of
our whole Middle Eastern policy which, prior to the suspension of the negotia-
tions between Egypt and Israel, had been a very successful one.
Now, there really are three options. You could resume the suspended nego-
tiations without making a commitment to go to Geneva. You could go to
Geneva and try to get an overall settlement, which is a very complicated mat-
ter-many people advocate it, however. But while you were going through this
negotiation for an overall settlement, as a third option you might have an
interim negotiated settlement between two of the parties, such as Israel and
Egypt.
Now, those are basically the three options. We have not made any decision
yet. We have had our Ambassadors from the Middle East come back and report
to me. We have undertaken a study under the leadership of Joe Sisco¹ to bring
together the best thinking and all of the options.
2
We have brought in, or Secretary Kissinger has brought in, some outside
experts in the Middle East. Last week, I had a meeting with a former State
Department official, Gene Rostow, who is an expert in this area. But right at
the moment, we have made no firm decision as to what our next particular
step will be in the Middle East.
1 Joseph J. Sisco, Under Secretary of State for Political Affairs.
2 Eugene V. Rostow, Under Secretary of State 1961-66.
552
