April 10
[179]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
laid the basis of a more reliable relationship, founded on mutual interest and
mutual restraint. But we cannot expect the Soviet Union to show restraint in
the face of the United States' weakness or irresolution.
As long as I am President, America will maintain its strength, its alliances,
and its principles as a prerequisite to a more peaceful planet. As long as I am
President, we will not permit détente to become a license to fish in troubled
waters. Détente must be—and, I trust, will be-a two-way relationship.
Central to U.S.-Soviet relations today is the critical negotiation to control
strategic nuclear weapons. We hope to turn the Vladivostok agreements into
a final agreement this year at the time of General Secretary Brezhnev's visit
to the United States. Such an agreement would, for the first time, put a ceiling
on the strategic arms race. It would mark a turning point in postwar history
and would be a crucial step in lifting from mankind the threat of nuclear war.
Our use of trade and economic sanctions as weapons to alter the internal
conduct of other nations must also be seriously reexamined. However well-
intentioned the goals, the fact is that some of our recent actions in the economic
field have been self-defeating, they are not achieving the objectives intended
by the Congress, and they have damaged our foreign policy.
The Trade Act of 1974 prohibits most-favored-nation treatment, credit and
investment guarantees and commercial agreements with the Soviet Union so
long as their emigration policies fail to meet our criteria. The Soviet Union
has therefore refused to put into effect the important 1972 trade agreement
between our two countries.
As a result, Western Europe and Japan have stepped into the breach. Those
countries have extended credits to the Soviet Union exceeding $8 billion in the
last 6 months. These are economic opportunities, jobs, and business which
could have gone to Americans.
There should be no illusions about the nature of the Soviet system, but there
should be no illusions about how to deal with it. Our belief in the right of
peoples of the world freely to emigrate has been well demonstrated. This legis-
lation, however, not only harmed our relations with the Soviet Union but
seriously complicated the prospects of those seeking to emigrate. The favorable
trend, aided by quiet diplomacy, by which emigration increased from 400 in
1968 to over 33,000 in 1973 has been seriously set back. Remedial legislation is
urgently needed in our national interest.
With the People's Republic of China, we are firmly fixed on the course set
forth in the Shanghai communique. Stability in Asia and the world require
our constructive relations with one-fourth of the human race. After two decades
469
