[318]
June 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
more vulnerable right today if an international cartel should impose another
oil embargo than we were in October, November, and December of 1973. We
are much more vulnerable. And it would have not only serious implications
to the strength of the country but it would have a terribly bad effect on our
capability to come out of the current recession and move into a more prosperous
economy in the months ahead.
I just hope that you can help persuade Members of Congress that if they
can't buy the good program that we submitted, they ought to at least come up
with a program of their own. And as of today, there has been nothing but
backward movement rather than forward movement.
Now let's talk about the economy. I think that the statistics today are en-
couraging. I don't mean to imply that every report that I get is the kind I want
to see, but when you look at the problems we have had for the last 5 months
and see where we are today and look at the forecast for the months ahead, we
have made a lot of headway.
In the last 5 months, we have done very well in cutting back the inflationary
problems that we have today—or over the last 5 months, the rate of inflation
has been about 5.6, 5.7, which is roughly half of what it was in the last few
months of 1974.
Unemployment is too high. We had 5 months in a row where we lost ap-
proximately 400,000 employees gainfully employed in our civilian economy.
It was a precipitous slide, but the last 2 months—even though unemployment
rates have increased—we have started the climb up again with a total number of
people gainfully employed. In the last 2 months, we have added approximately
400-450,000 to those gainfully employed.
It is the consensus that we are on our way out, just beginning to get out of
this recession. But if you look at the consumer confidence figures, if you look
at the wide range of other economic indicators including those that came out
of the Department of Commerce last week, there is good reason for us to believe
the strength of this economy is such that we are going to be looking at a much
better picture in the third and fourth quarters of 1975 and increasingly better
in 1976.
Now, this has been a hard, tough period, whether it is in the budget, whether
it is energy, or whether it is in the economy. But wherever I go, I find the spirit
of America good. Adversity seems to strengthen us, gives us the feeling that
we will stand up to the pressures and meet the challenges, and this is the kind
of spirit that I think is essential and necessary if our country is to continue to
be the leader at home as well as abroad.
802
