July 11
[395]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
I know that many of you in your respective businesses have economists and
analysts and forecasters and others, as we do in the Federal Government. And it
is the information that I get—and I think it is reasonably reliable—that tells
me that the decline in output and the increase in unemployment has stopped.
And that is good news for America.
No one can say with certainty—no one can say that everything points pre-
cisely in the way that we want it, but there are far, far more signs on the plus
side indicating to us that we are on the road to economic recovery.
On the other hand, as we look at the path ahead of us, it is my judgment that
we must take all necessary steps to make sure, to make certain, and to make
positive that this recovery continues, avoiding some of the pitfalls of the past
and the problems that have been not well-handled in the years of a few experi-
ences before.
This means to me three things—if I might be quite categorical: sustained
economic growth, we must make a maximum effort to curb inflation, and we
must provide job opportunities for the maximum number of Americans, par-
ticularly all that want the opportunity and the responsibility. And this means,
as I see it, individual economic opportunity and freedom. Jobs mean individual
dignity, and I can assure you that I will do my utmost to restore that dignity
to all American workers.
This is a very delicate time, calling for carefully considered, deliberate deci-
sions, for carefully constructed, long-range economic planning. If we are to have
the absolute, necessary, sustained growth for this country, we must have that
growth with inflation under control. And if we are to avoid new, perhaps worse
inflation than ever before, then our recovery policies of today must be based on
responsible fiscal restraint.
I was looking at some figures the other day, and a few weeks after I took
office, the rate of inflation was between 12 and 14 percent per annum, the worst
this country had sustained for a long period of time.
Many people felt that we had no capability of answering or meeting that
problem, but some decisions were made and some results have been achieved
so that for the last 5 months-according to the statistics—instead of 12 to 14
percent inflation, we are down to 5 to 6 percent.
That is not satisfactory, and we will not be satisfied with it. But I think that
we have made substantial progress, and we have done it in a sound and a con-
structive way.
I must say it hasn't been easy, but the American people have been wise and
tolerant. And the consequence is that a policy of fiscal restraint and some
961
