[408]
July 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
take account of the technological state of the art and to provide for increasing
operational requirements.
At the time of signature, the United States Delegation stated its reservation to
one of the Revision's frequency allocation plans. It was felt that the plan and
its associated procedures would be incompatible with the official and public
correspondence needs of the United States. The U.S. will observe the plan to the
extent practicable, but will not be bound by that provision of the Revision.
The Partial Revision will enter into force on January 1, 1976, for govern-
ments which, by that date, have notified the Secretary General of the Inter-
national Telecommunications Union of their approval thereof. It is desirable
that the United States be a party to the Partial Revision from the outset, and it
is my hope that the Senate will take early and favorable action on the Revision
and give its advice and consent to ratification.
The White House,
July 16, 1975.
GERALD R. FORD
NOTE: The revision and accompanying papers are printed in Senate Executive G (94th Cong., 1st sess.).
409
Remarks on Greeting the National Farm Family of the Year.
July 17, 1975
LET ME apologize for being a little late, but I was meeting with some of Sen-
ator Packwood's and Senator Hatfield's colleagues in the Senate, and it took a
little longer than we anticipated.
I do want to congratulate the Ottomans for being the Farm Family of the
Year. I noticed that potatoes, barley, and hay are Oregon's main products.
It is real nice to have you here and to participate with the two Senators and my
good friend, Al Ullman, who is your Congressman.
Farm Family of the Year-I think that is a great, great achievement. Six per-
cent of our population is on the farm, and so you are the top of 6 percent of our
population. You can't do better than that.
But I know first, family life and agriculture, both of them contribute very
significantly to a better America.
996
