March 6
[125]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
the news media in the last week or so, really involving such actions that might
have taken place beginning back in the 1960's.
I don't think it is appropriate for me at this time to go any further. We do
have an investigation of the CIA, of our intelligence agencies, by the Congress,
both overt and covert, going back from the inception of the CIA. And of course,
we do have the Rockefeller Commission going into any CIA activities in the
domestic front.
But for me to comment beyond that, I think, would be inappropriate at this
time.
CAMBODIA AND THE REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
[4.] Q. Mr. President, you say that there would be a deep sense of shame in
the country if Cambodia should fall. If that would be the case, sir, can you ex-
plain why there seems to be such a broad feeling of apathy in the country and
also in the Congress toward providing any more aid for either Cambodia or
South Vietnam?
THE PRESIDENT. I believe there is a growing concern which has been ac-
centuated since we have seen the horror stories on television in recent weeks-the
wanton use of rockets in the city of Phnom Penh, the children lying stricken on
the streets, and people under great stress and strain-bloody scenes of the worst
kind.
I think this kind of depicting of a tragedy there has aroused American con-
cern, and I think it is a growing concern as the prospect of tragedy of this kind
becomes even more evident.
So, I have noticed in the last week in the United States Congress, in a bipartisan
way, a great deal more interest in trying to find an answer. And yesterday I
spent an hour-plus with Members of Congress who came back from a trip to
Cambodia and South Vietnam, and they saw firsthand the kind of killing,
the kind of bloodshed, and it had a severe impact on these Members of Congress,
some of whom have been very, very strongly opposed to our involvement in the
past in Vietnam. And I think their impact will be significant in the Congress
as well as in the country.
Mr. Lisagor [Peter Lisagor, Chicago Daily News].
Q. Mr. President, the question is raised by many critics of our policy in South-
east Asia as to why we can conduct a policy of détente with the two Communist
super powers in the world and could not follow a policy of détente should Cam-
bodia and South Vietnam go Communist. Could you explain that to us?
323
