April 8
[172]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
of the inflation that caused most of our troubles today in the economic front at
home.
We want to help the people who are less fortunate than others in America,
but at the same time, we want to reward our middle-income people who have
the desire.
We must provide an incentive for them so that they will continue their hard
work, their dedication to making our country a better place in which to live.
And that middle-income group that now pays better than a third of the Federal
taxes—that includes schoolteachers, firemen, workingpeople, and a lot of other
people in our society—we want them to have a fair break as we design, as we
revise our income tax laws at the Federal level.
As I was sitting in the Oval Office a minute ago looking out and seeing all
of you assembled, my own mind went back to an incident that I had back in
June of 1931, the first time that I came to Washington, D.C. I was a graduate of
South High School in Grand Rapids—it no longer exists, but it is now South
Middle School. When I came to Washington, D.C., with 50 or 60 other young
people from all of the middle western part of our country, I was given a tour
like
many of you have, or will, while you are here. And I have a picture taken
up in front of the Capitol of the United States with all of the 50 or 60 of us who
came to Washington on that occasion.
As I look back, I must have gotten an inspiration then to want to be involved
in our Government. I suspect that was where the seed was planted, of course
never expecting to have the opportunity of living in that great historic house.
But let me say to each and every one of you, if a 17-year-old from Grand
Rapids, Michigan, could come from that to this, the same opportunity exists
for each and every one of you, both male and female.
A few years ago—I think it was about 2 years ago—somebody in this town
made the comment when asked the question, what was his advice to young
people today about getting involved in government, and his words, if I remem-
ber them accurately, were, "Stay away."
That was poor advice then, and it is poor advice now. Your participation in
CLOSE-UP is your answer. The right answer is to get close-up, be involved
at the local, the State, and the Federal level. And if you do, you will be happier.
You will feel that you are making a great contribution to your government,
to your country.
And our country today, as we face the problems both at home and abroad,
needs your involvement, your dedication, your wisdom, your creativity.
We have a great country, and the problems we have can and will be solved.
449
