[185]
April 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
as its citizens. The better we use the talents of all our people, women as well as
men, the brighter and more secure the future of this great Republic will be.
I thank you for joining Betty and me, and we would like to jointly issue you
an invitation to have refreshments in the State Dining Room.
Thank you very, very much.
I can tell who that applause is for, but she said I did very well. I want that on
record because I don't get that very often. [Laughter]
NOTE: The President spoke at 6:39 p.m. in the East Room at the White House.
186
Address at the Continental Congress of the Daughters
of the American Revolution. April 15, 1975
Madam President General, members of the DAR:
Before I begin my formal remarks, I want to express my personal sense of
loss at the sudden death of your late president general, Mrs. Henry Stewart
Jones. Mrs. Jones, as all of you know, was a dedicated, serious patriot, a very
great person. She will be greatly missed. But I hope that what I have to say today
reflects some of the ideals she held and some of the concern she felt for our
great Nation.
On a personal note, my mother was a proud and dedicated member of the
DAR. I was proud to grow up in that tradition, and I was very proud to have
this DAR background.
Obviously, it is an honor for me to address this great gathering. As descend-
ants of the brave Americans who founded our Nation, each and every one of
you have a proud heritage. But I think you would be the first to agree that this
heritage belongs not only to the DAR but to all Americans inspired by our
Nation's history. We all share a great common heritage.
Although you are the "daughters" of the American Revolution, all of us are,
in a sense, the children, the heirs of the American Revolution.
This year, especially, as we prepare for the celebration of our Bicentennial, it
would be good for all Americans to do some soul-searching about where we are
going as a nation and what we are doing with the precious heritage of freedom
that we inherited. This is a good time both to look backward and to look
forward—a good time to take stock.
In so doing, we should not fall into the trap of blind nostalgia or persuading
ourselves that America's best years are behind us.
480
