[51]
January 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
As chairman of the Public Works Subcommittee on Transportation, John
helped to shape our interstate highway system—an achievement in which he
took special pride.
He was a conscientious, hard-working public servant, who served both his
party and his country well. Mrs. Ford and I join with his many friends in
extending our sympathy to his wife, Estelle, on her bereavement.
NOTE: Representative Kluczynski was a Member of Congress from 1951 until his death on January 26, 1975.
52
Statement on the 10th Anniversary of the Job Corps.
January 28, 1975
FOR TWO centuries, America has stood for freedom and opportunity—a land
where every boy and girl could advance in life as far as their talents carried them.
Despite this proud national heritage, skin color, language barriers, poverty,
or other factors beyond their control have denied many of our fellow citizens the
chance to share fully in the American dream.
For hundreds of thousands of these disadvantaged Americans, the national
Job Corps over the past decade has opened a path to a better life. By giving them
a chance to prepare for meaningful and rewarding employment, it has offered
the disadvantaged a chance to help themselves.
In the 10 years since its founding, the Job Corps has provided 500,000 young
people with opportunities to learn marketable job skills. It has provided special
education, vocational training, work experience, avocational activities, health
care, and counseling.
With the support of business, labor, religious, civic, and fraternal groups, the
Job Corps over the past decade has opened a path to a better life. By giving them
a chance to prepare for meaningful and rewarding employment, it has offered
the disadvantaged a chance to help themselves.
On this 10th anniversary, I welcome the opportunity to call upon all my fellow
citizens to join in saluting the Job Corps, its dedicated staff, and all those who
have been associated with its worthwhile activities.
118
