[179]
April 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
Japan last November vividly symbolized for both our peoples the friendship
and the solidarity of this extraordinary partnership. I look forward, as I am
sure all of you do, with very special pleasure to welcoming the Emperor when
he visits the United States later this year.
We consider our security treaty with Japan the cornerstone of stability in
the vast reaches of Asia and the Pacific. Our relations are crucial to our mutual
well-being. Together, we are working energetically on the international multi-
lateral agenda-in trade, energy, and food. We will continue the process of
strengthening our friendship, mutual security, and prosperity.
Also, of course, of fundamental importance is our mutual security relation-
ship with the Republic of Korea, which I reaffirmed on my recent visit.
Our relations with Europe have never been stronger. There are no peoples
with whom America's destiny has been more closely linked. There are no
peoples whose friendship and cooperation are more needed for the future. For
none of the members of the Atlantic community can be secure, none can
prosper, none can advance unless we all do so together. More than ever, these
times demand our close collaboration in order to maintain the secure anchor
of our common security in this time of international riptides, to work together
on the promising negotiations with our potential adversaries, to pool our
energies on the great new economic challenge that faces us.
In addition to this traditional agenda, there are new problems involving
energy, raw materials, and the environment. The Atlantic nations face many
and complex negotiations and decisions. It is time to take stock, to consult on
our future, to affirm once again our cohesion and our common destiny. I
therefore expect to join with the other leaders of the Atlantic Alliance at a
Western summit in the very near future.
Before this NATO meeting, I earnestly ask the Congress to weigh the
broader considerations and consequences of its past actions on the complex
Greek-Turkish dispute over Cyprus. Our foreign policy cannot be simply a
collection of special economic or ethnic or ideological interests. There must
be a deep concern for the overall design of our international actions. To achieve
this design for peace and to assure that our individual acts have some coher-
ence, the Executive must have some flexibility in the conduct of foreign policy.
United States military assistance to an old and faithful ally, Turkey, has
been cut off by action of the Congress. This has imposed an embargo on mili-
tary purchases by Turkey, extending even to items already paid for an unprec-
edented act against a friend.
These moves, I know, were sincerely intended to influence Turkey in the
466
