[395]
July 11
Public Papers of the Presidents
strength has brought us to a point where we can look ahead with some optimism.
But as we look down the road, I think we must be moderate in our economic
plans and expectations. It would be foolhardy, in my honest opinion, to allow
the economy to start and then stop and then start again.
We must not permit government pump-priming to break the economic dikes
again, as it did in the past. False hopes, as I see it, must not be paraded before
the American people—the promise of a quick fix—leaving them with empty
illusions.
To avoid all that, to the best of our ability, we will continue to steer a firm
and steady course in our Government's economic policy. Obviously, I will con-
tinue to veto some unnecessary spending by the Congress.
If I might say so parenthetically, I thank those Members of the House and
Senate, both Democrats as well as Republicans, for the support that they have
given in some of these very tough, difficult decisions that they had to make in
legislation that had a good title-and I give the benefit of the doubt to good
intentions-but were fundamentally unsound economically-those that stood
with us when the going was tough. And I thank them who are here and those
who are not in our audience tonight.
At this point, let me say, however, too many in the Congress have been play-
ing with fire, attempting on too many occasions to add huge amounts to
spendings that would under any circumstances rekindle inflation. If I might add
at this point, in those circumstances, the veto is the only Presidential tool that
can be used to seek a constructive answer in a compromise with the Congress.
Too many people have the impression that a veto is a negative action by a
President. That is not true at all. The history of a veto over the last 25 years is—
whether it was Mr. Truman, Mr. Eisenhower, Mr. Kennedy, Mr. Johnson, Mr.
Nixon, or myself—is that if a President vetoes a spending bill, eventually the
Congress comes back with some moderation, a better put-together piece of legis-
lation in language or in dollars. So, the net result is that a President uses the
veto in a constructive way, not in a negative way.
Now, in the short run, some of these vetoes may be unpopular, with some at
least. But in the long run, I believe they will be seen as the right action to have
been taken by the White House. I can assure you tonight, as I have tried on
other occasions to assure the American people, that we will not spend them
into more headaches and more heartaches for a hollow victory, a short-term
period of economic resurgence that might last a year or two if we took the
expedient course.
If we look back over the last 25 years of our economic life in this country,
962
