[85]
February 11
Public Papers of the Presidents
vast governmental experience, at the State as well as at the Federal level, the
things that I discussed with him could be very helpful to me.
I see no conflict whatsoever. Mr. Connally has been indicted, he will get a fair
trial, and I shouldn't comment on the outcome. But until he has been convicted,
I think it is very appropriate for me to meet with him to discuss matters involv-
ing the Federal Government, both domestic and foreign policy.
Q. Sir, may I follow that up? Would you have any objection if members of
your Justice Department were to meet privately with persons who were under
indictment in cases that were being prosecuted by the Justice Department?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think that people in the Department of Justice who
have the responsibility of actually carrying out their responsibilities as prose-
cutors-I think there is quite a difference. They make the judgments as to prose-
cution; my position is not exactly that. And my reason for meeting with former
Governor Connally, former Secretary of the Treasury, was to discuss non-or
no matters involving his present legal difficulties.
FEDERAL FARM ASSISTANCE
[9.] Q. Mr. President, I would like to turn to the timing of your farming
programs for just a moment. The farmers here in Kansas say they are suffering
now from increased operations costs and also from a depressed market that they
blame on export controls. Some western Kansans are even considering abandon-
ing their crops that are in the ground now. So, if your plan doesn't take effect
until the first of the fiscal year, do you have some emergency alternatives to help
Kansas farmers?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think the thing that might be helpful is the decision
that has been made to, in effect, eliminate any monitoring of foreign sales of
American agricultural commodities.
I did impose a monitoring system, not export controls, on the sale of American
agricultural commodities about 4 months ago, when there were these several
unexpected, very sizable sales to the Soviet Union. But we have found that our
agricultural reserves are fully adequate. We have found that the crop forecasts,
particularly in winter wheat, are very encouraging. And therefore, I have, in
effect, removed the monitoring system.
It seems to me that the American farmers are the kind of good Americans
that will produce, because I happen to think they will not only have a good
market, which they have today, but they also are good Americans in that they
know what they produce will help us in our balance of payments and our
humanitarian efforts on a worldwide basis.
226
