February 27
[112]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
mined, as I stated on September 20, 1974, to keep the Federal career service just
that—a career service in which men and women can be accepted in the first
place on their ability and promoted on their merit.
Sincerely,
GERALD R. FORD
[Mr. Mortimer M. Caplin, President, National Civil Service League, 917 15th Street, NW., Washington, D.C.
20005]
NOTE: Mr. Caplin's letter, dated January 16, 1975, is printed in the Weekly Compilation of Presidential
Documents (vol. 11, p. 225).
112
Remarks at the Unveiling of a Portrait of Representative Olin E.
Teague in the Rayburn House Office Building.
February 27, 1975
Tiger and Freddie and your family, and the artist Terry, Mr. Speaker, people
from the executive branch, and all of the friends of the space committee:
It is a great privilege for me to be here and to have a part in paying tribute
to one of my dear friends and one of the outstanding Members of the House of
Representatives.
I think you are all familiar with the slogan, "Put a tiger in your tank.”
[Laughter] You don't know what I am going to say now. [Laughter]
I think America can be mighty grateful that 29 years ago some Texans put
a Tiger in the House. And we are all the beneficiaries. You know, Tiger-from
my experience—has proven to me and, I am sure, to the Speaker and to others
that he is a man for all seasons. We know him as a patriot, as a legislator, a
humanitarian, and as an athlete.
Not too many people know about his athletic skill, but I can tell you from
personal experience they did not call him the Minnesota Fats of the House
paddleball court for nothing.
I have known Tiger, I have worked with him, I have admired and I have
respected Tiger ever since I first came to the Congress in January of 1949. Tiger
preceded me by a term or two, and I have looked back into the record, and I
cannot help but say that his election to the House was one of the most dramatic
on record.
Sometimes the term "war hero" is used rather loosely, but in Tiger Teague's
case, it is almost an understatement. As the commander of a combat infantry
303
