[179]
April 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
of mutual isolation and hostility, we have, in recent years, built a promising
foundation. Deep differences in our philosophy and social systems will endure,
but so should our mutual long-term interests and the goals to which our
countries have jointly subscribed in Shanghai. I will visit China later this
year to reaffirm these interests and to accelerate the improvement in our rela-
tions. And I was glad to welcome the distinguished Speaker and the distin-
guished minority leader of the House back today from their constructive visit
to the People's Republic of China.
Let me talk about new challenges. The issues I have discussed are the most
pressing of the traditional agenda on foreign policy, but ahead of us also is a
vast new agenda of issues in an interdependent world. The United States,
with its economic power, its technology, its zest for new horizons, is the
acknowledged world leader in dealing with many of these challenges.
If this is a moment of uncertainty in the world, it is even more a moment
of rare opportunity.
We are summoned to meet one of man's most basic challenges-hunger.
At the World Food Conference last November in Rome, the United States
outlined a comprehensive program to close the ominous gap between popu-
lation growth and food production over the long term. Our technological skill
and our enormous productive capacity are crucial to accomplishing this task.
The old order-in trade, finance, and raw materials-is changing and Amer-
ican leadership is needed in the creation of new institutions and practices for
worldwide prosperity and progress.
The world's oceans, with their immense resources and strategic importance,
must become areas of cooperation rather than conflict. American policy is
directed to that end.
Technology must be harnessed to the service of mankind while protecting
the environment. This, too, is an arena for American leadership.
The interests and the aspirations of the developed and developing nations
must be reconciled in a manner that is both realistic and humane. This is our
goal in this new era.
One of the finest success stories in our foreign policy is our cooperative effort
with other major energy-consuming nations. In little more than a year, to-
gether with our partners, we have created the International Energy Agency;
we have negotiated an emergency sharing arrangement which helps to reduce
the dangers of an embargo; we have launched major international conservation
efforts; we have developed a massive program for the development of alterna-
tive sources of energy.
470
