[300]
June 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
people of Egypt, to peace in the Middle East, and in the cause of peace for all
peoples.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:22 p.m. at Schloss
Klessheim. President Sadat responded to the Presi-
dent's toast as follows:
Dear President Ford, distinguished friends:
It was only yesterday when I first met President
Ford in person to deepen the acquaintance, respect
through the exchange of letters and views in the
last few months.
I am pleased to say that our first get-together was
a delightful and illuminating one, as it revealed to
me President Ford's great vision, compassion, and
genuine commitment to the cause of peace.
Not surprisingly, I found that the President
agrees fully with me that the situation in the
Middle East is an explosive one that makes it im-
perative on all the parties concerned to take the
urgent actions and measured decisions if we are to
avoid another unfortunate outburst of violence.
No one who is sincere in his desire to establish
peace in that sensitive and strategic area can possibly
tolerate a stalemate or stagnation. Such a state of
affairs does not in the least reduce tension or stimu-
late the process of peace. On the contrary, it gives
way to increased mistrust, accumulated frustration,
and escalated tensions.
We cannot keep the conflict within manageable
proportions unless we strive to maintain the mo-
mentum of peace through concrete actions that could
convince people that peace is not only a desirable
ideal but also a practical and workable proposition.
I am equally pleased with President Ford's sincere
desire to strengthen the bilateral relations between
our two countries and peoples in the interest of
world peace and international cooperation.
Dear friends, while I invite you to stand up and
drink a toast for President Ford and the American
people, I would like to state that we are looking for-
ward to seeing the President and Mrs. Ford in Cairo.
Prior to the luncheon hosted by President Ford,
the Presidents held a meeting at the Salzburg
Residenz.
301
Remarks on Arrival in Rome, Italy.
June 3, 1975
President Leone, Mrs. Leone, Mr. Prime Minister, Excellencies, and friends:
Mr. President, Mrs. Ford and I express our grateful appreciation for the very
warm and generous welcome. We are delighted to be here.
The United States and Italy are close friends and very close allies. This fact
was apparent during President Leone's visit to Washington in 1974. That visit
was memorable to me as the first visit by a European head of state to the United
States during my Presidency. The very positive results of our discussions were
reflected in the U.S.-Italian joint statement issued last September.
Now, during my first visit to Europe as a President, I come to Rome to
continue our consultations on the many, many issues of great importance to
both of our countries.
Our discussions today will be inspired and strengthened by the results of the
NATO summit meeting in which both our countries participated last week and
by our reaffirmation, together with other NATO member nations, of our dedi-
cation to Alliance goals.
762
