March 24
[154]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
As the President pointed out, the United States remains ready to work with
the parties, and other interested countries, to promote a peace of justice in the
Middle East.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:21 p.m. on the
South Lawn at the White House following Secre-
tary Kissinger's arrival by helicopter from Andrews
Air Force Base.
The Secretary's return followed a suspension of
negotiations between Egypt and Israel on mutual
troop disengagement in the Sinai Peninsula.
154
Letter to the Speaker of the House and the President of the
Senate on Designation of Developing Countries for Purposes
of the Generalized System of Preferences. March 24, 1975
IN ACCORDANCE with Section 502(a) of the Trade Act, I wrote to you on
January 13, 1975,¹ concerning my intention to make certain designations of coun-
tries as beneficiary developing countries for purposes of implementing the
generalized system of tariff preferences.
I wish to inform you that today I have issued an Executive order designating
certain beneficiary countries. On the basis of an extensive review of all relevant
investment disputes which has been completed since my January 13 letter, I have
determined that several countries which otherwise might be ineligible for
generalized preferences by virtue of the provisions of Section 502(b)(4) (A),
(B) or (C), are eligible for beneficiary status by reason of the provisions of
Section 502(b) (4) (D). Accordingly, such countries were included among the
ones designated in Section 1 of the Executive order as beneficiary developing
countries. As required by Section 502(b)(4), I am furnishing herewith a copy
of my determinations pursuant to Section 502(b)(4) (D).²
Because we were able to make these determinations prior to publication of
the Executive order designating certain beneficiary developing countries, it no
longer is necessary to follow the procedure for use of the waivers based on
national economic interest, described in the sixth paragraph of my letter of
January 13. I have also decided that Gabon, The Peoples' Republic of Yemen,
Somalia, and Uganda, which were on list A in the Tab to my letter of January 13,
will not be designated at this time but will be added to those countries being
¹ The text of the President's letter is printed in H. Doc. 94-85 (94th Cong., 1st sess.).
2 The text of the Presidential determination is printed in the Code of Federal Regulations (3A CFR,
1975 Comp., p. 244).
397
