February 13
[90]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
change it, the Senate Finance Committee can change it, the Senate can change it,
and then they have to go to conference.
I have been in enough conferences. I know conferences can significantly change
a legislative proposal from the House and the Senate. I am going to stick with
my proposal until I see what the Congress eventually comes up with.
We think ours is the best balance to get the needed stimulant and the most
constructive action from the point of view of business. I hesitate to commit
myself to what a committee has done when they have got a long and tortuous
road before they send anything down to the White House.
I just want them to act, and it does bother me. I must say this: In my State
of the Union Message on January 15, I told them what we wanted, what I
thought was needed. I had people up there testifying as soon as their committees
were organized. And you know, the House of Representatives won't act on that
until next week or the following week, and that is almost 5 weeks.
Then they have the Senate process, and then they have to go to conference. I
wish the Congress would act much more quickly, and that is one reason we
recommended a very simplified proposal.
TAX REDUCTION AND UNEMPLOYMENT
[4.] Q. Mr. President, I am Jerry Moran, Scudder, Stevens & Clark. If your
advisers' forecast of the rate of unemployment does prove to be low by 1 to 2
percent, by what amount would you consider increasing your tax reduction
program?
THE PRESIDENT. As I answered earlier to the gentleman who asked the first
question, I don't assume that our forecasts are inaccurate. In fact, I am more
optimistic than they—or the computers are, let me put it that way. [Laughter]
I am even more optimistic than Alan. [Laughter]
And I guess you have some customers who are more optimistic than he.
[Laughter]
So, I am going to stick with my tough-minded optimism. I think I would
answer it this way, without accepting the premise that you have propounded,
that if—well, it is pretty obvious what I recommended indicates my ideological
belief that a tax reduction is better than increased spending. I think it is much
more sensible. As a matter of fact, I tried to hold spending down, and I gave
the stimulant, as I recommended it, to a tax reduction.
Now, by giving that answer, I don't want anybody in the press or here to
believe under any circumstances that I think the unemployment figures are
245
