[42]
January 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
42
Exchange With Reporters Following a Meeting With
Northeastern State Governors. January 23, 1975
AS I am sure you know, the Governors from the New England and Northeast
United States had a meeting with me. It was a very frank and free discussion of
the proclamation which I just signed, a proclamation which in my honest
judgment was necessary, not for the purpose of penalizing any State or any
industry, but for the purpose of getting action in the solution of our critical
energy problem.
The United States today is very vulnerable to foreign oil embargoes. We need
a program that will make us invulnerable to the possibility of foreign oil em-
bargoes or any other action. This is firm action by me.
I hope the Congress will move rapidly to enact a comprehensive energy pro-
gram, an energy program that I think is fair, an energy program that will
make us secure against any possible action by any foreign country.
So, if the Congress moves, either on my plan or their own comprehensive
plan, moves forward, then the country, our Nation, can be much more secure,
not only for the present but for the future.
REPORTER. Mr. President, many of these Governors say their States just can-
not afford the higher prices of oil.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, under my plan, of course, the States will get a refund
for any added energy costs, if the Congress acts. Under my energy production
and conservation program, individuals and businesses will get refunds from the
Federal Treasury for any added energy costs. So, I have a plan that is equitable.
It awaits Congressional action and I hope that the Congress will move.
Q. Mr. President, you spoke recently of compromise with Congress, not
quibbling over details. When Congress-some of the Democratic Congress-
men-asked for you to delay your proclamation, you refused to delay it. Is that
compromise?
THE PRESIDENT. The Congress is in session. The Congress has an opportunity
to act on my program or produce their own, and if the Congress produces an
equitable, comprehensive plan, of course I will consider it. But the time for action
is now. We have diddled and dawdled long enough. We have to have an energy
program in this country, and the only way I know to get it is to take the action
that I took, which has, incidentally, produced more action within the last 10
days on energy than I have seen in the last 2 or 3 years.
84
