[167]
April 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
from the defense budget. At a time like this, nothing could be more shortsighted
or devastating to our security.
Individually, many of the domestic spending programs proposed in the Con-
gress have most attractive aspects. They provide help for some worthy group.
It is hard for Members of Congress to oppose those programs. It will be very, very
hard for me to veto them if Congress enacts them. But it is not the individual
programs that are unacceptable, but the sum total of them, adding up easily to
$30 billion or more to bring the deficit into the $100 billion area.
Defense spending on the other hand provides no benefits, except the most
precious benefit of all-the freedom of our country and the last hope for peace
in the world.
As President Eisenhower so wisely observed, only the strong are free. Cer-
tainly, we have ample reason to believe this truth today. My budget recommenda-
tions for national defense are the minimum, I believe, essential for our safety.
It is now a popular idea that because Americans are not fighting anywhere,
because we are seeking to broaden every avenue of peace, that we can expand
social benefit programs and pay for them out of defense cutbacks. Simple
arithmetic proves otherwise. I have seen careful mathematical projections that
show if welfare and other transfer payments continue merely at their present
rate of growth, about 9 percent annually for the past 20 years, half of the Ameri-
can people will be living off the other half by the year 2000.
Except for vastly increasing taxes on those who work, the only way such pay-
ments can be continued indefinitely is to take them away from our national
defense. Other super powers, I can assure you, are doing nothing of that kind.
I pledge to you today that I will resist stripping America's defense capability
in every legal way available to me. But if the men and women you send to the
Congress fail to face up to these inescapable realities, refuse to accept the bal-
anced judgment of their own new budget committee which has been set up to
enforce the same overall limitations that I had to work with, then—and this is
hard to believe, but it mathematically works out-by simple arithmetic, it will
only be a few short decades before our defenses will be down to a single soldier
with a single rifle with a single round of ammunition.
That is not good for America and freedom throughout the world. Frankly,
I don't think that is going to happen, because I have more faith than that, that
America won't tolerate it—and I mean the 213 million Americans of all faiths,
all political parties, all backgrounds, and so forth.
My former colleagues in the Congress know I have always been an optimist,
and whenever I can get away from Washington and see Americans as they
428
