March 21
[152]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
I want all of you here this evening to know I am committed to the maximum
protection of the miner. Labor, management, and government must work
together in this effort.
The Government has another vital, long-range commitment. The coal and
transportation industries must have confidence that we here in Washington
are really committed to the increased, long-term use of coal. As you know, a
healthy railroad system is essential to support the Nation's efforts to double coal
production. I will submit to the Congress in the near future a comprehensive
legislative program to revitalize the country's railroads.
I want to reemphasize what I said in my State of the Union Message. I envision
the development of more than 250 major new coal mines in the next decade
and the construction of 150 major coal-fired powerplants and 20 major synthetic
fuel plants.
I am pursuing three major objectives:
—First, to increase our capability to convert coal into clean gaseous and liquid
fuels. To meet this goal, the Government, working with private industry, is
completing work on four coal liquefaction pilot plants. Government and indus-
try are starting the design of a commercial-size facility to produce liquid and
gaseous boiler fuel and finishing construction of six pilot plant facilities to pro-
duce synthetic pipeline gas.
—Second, to develop technologies that will burn coal directly without pro-
ducing environmental damage.
-Third, to improve the Nation's mining technology to insure that we can
produce the needed coal safely and in an environmentally sound way. To
emphasize: In all these efforts, the Government is working closely with indus-
try. The Government has actively encouraged—and I fully support—the partici-
pation and joint sponsorship of such projects by mineowners, energy com-
panies, utilities, manufacturers, and research organizations.
To meet the challenge of the goals I have set-the doubling of coal production
in the next 10 years—we must increase production by at least 7 percent each
year. In 1985, nearly 70 percent of our coal will be produced by mines that do
not now exist.
This will require immense effort on the part of many people. The industry
must plan these mines, obtain new, technologically superior equipment, solve
extraordinary problems in coal handling and transportation, and still raise
multibillion dollars in capital to do all this. That capital must be raised in com-
petition with other investment market demands.
In the meantime, it is your job and my responsibility not to leave the future
395
