April 3
[167]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Today, in the presence of three of my former colleagues, I renew the chal-
lenge to the Congress to enact before May 1 of this year a comprehensive energy
program. It is essential to our national security, and it is more essential today
than it was in January, when I proposed it.
The facts are, we can afford no more delays. I am an optimist. I think the
Congress will do it. I would not be frank and honest with you if I were to ignore
the serious setbacks we have suffered in very recent weeks in our quest for peace
in the Middle East and, more recently and more dramatically, in Southeast Asia.
Even as I speak, the dimensions of the human catastrophe in Southeast Asia
increase. Whether from your evening news shows or morning headlines or
from my top secret reports, which I receive on a daily basis, it is impossible not
to be moved and shaken by the sudden and tragic developments in South Viet-
nam. All Americans, regardless of how they may have felt in months or years
in the past, are shocked and saddened and wondering what we can do.
First, we are taking all the humanitarian measures we can to relieve the inno-
cent civilian refugees in South Vietnam, whose plight touches the hearts of all
Americans. At the same time, we are providing for the safety of all Americans
who, from a deep sense of duty, might be endangered by swift changes in the
battle zone.
Second, as the Congress returns next Monday and I have an opportunity to
address them, I will ask the Members of Congress for a firm American commit-
ment to humanitarian assistance for the helpless victims of North Vietnamese
aggression in flagrant violation of the Paris accords, accords which sought to
end the suffering and bloodshed on a civilized basis.
Finally, I must say with all of the certainty of which I am capable: No adver-
sary or potential enemies of the United States of America should imagine that
America can be safely challenged, and no allies or time-tested friends of the
United States should worry or fear that our commitments to them will not be
honored. The unfortunate confusion and changing situation in Southeast Asia
should not give encouragement to our adversaries nor apprehension to our
friends. We stand ready to defend ourselves and support our allies as surely as
we always have.
As it always has, adversity is creating a new sense of national unity among
Americans in these sad and troubled times. I will not engage in recriminations
or attempts to assess the blame, nor should any of us. Not all of the facts are
known. When they are, the American people will be the jury for the present
and historians will write the story for the future. What is essential now is that
we keep our nerve and our essential unity as a powerful but peace-loving Nation.
425
