April 16
[189]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
emphasis placed by the Chinese leaders, leading all the way from Premier
Chou on down, that no firm relationship with the United States was possible
until Taiwan, so to speak, was taken out of the picture and placed under
Chinese rule. Now, you are going back to China. Is that part of your agenda?
THE PRESIDENT. The relationship between the United States and the People's
Republic of China, which was reopened several years ago, is predicated on the
Shanghai communique. This relationship is continuing, I would say, on
schedule.
I am going back to the People's Republic late this fall. I was there for about
2 weeks in June and July of 1972. I would say that no firm agenda for that
forthcoming meeting has been established. So I am not in a position to com-
ment directly on the question that you ask.
FOREIGN POLICY
[4.] Q. Mr. President, you have reaffirmed your confidence in the present
American foreign policy, but I wonder if you could expand on that just a little
bit. Are we committed to containing communism around the world? Are we
committed to a heavy program of economic aid? Are we committed to a heavy
program of military aid? Will we get into armed intervention in desperate
cases?
THE PRESIDENT. We are committed to a furtherance of our policy of détente
with the Soviet Union. I think that policy is in our mutual interests. It won't
solve all the problems where either we or they are involved, but it has helped
to reduce tensions.
It has helped in other ways where our joint cooperation could be helpful. We
do, as a country, at least while I am President, expect to continue our relation-
ship with Western Europe, with NATO.
We hope to strengthen it. We hope to eliminate some of the current problems,
such as the problem between Greece and Turkey at the present time over
Cyprus. We do expect to continue working in the Middle East, which includes
some economic aid, some military assistance for various countries in that area
of the world.
I think we have an obligation to continue to have a presence in the Pacific,
in Latin America, in Africa. It is my judgment that in each of these cases, we
will probably continue both economic and military assistance on a selective basis.
I am not saying this is the containment of communism. It is a furtherance
of the policy of the United States aimed at our security and the maintenance
of peace on a global basis.
497
