[198]
April 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:54 a.m. at Patriots
Day ceremonies at the bridge. He was introduced by
Philip Suter, chairman of the Town of Concord
Board of Selectmen.
Following the President's remarks, Sir Peter
Ramsbotham, British Ambassador to the United
States, laid a wreath on the graves of British
soldiers buried at Concord. The President then
placed a wreath at the base of the Minutemen
Statue.
199
Remarks at Lexington Green, Lexington, Massachusetts.
April 19, 1975
Mr. Kenney, Senators Brooke and Kennedy, my former colleagues in the House
of Representatives, and one of my dear and finest friends, former Speaker of the
House John McCormick, and of course, one of your fine former Governors, John
Volpe, other public officials, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
Let me, at the outset, thank all of the wonderful people of the Commonwealth
of Massachusetts. Thank you for the wonderful experience that I have had since
flying from one of your sister States, New Hampshire, last night to Massachusetts.
The inspirational opportunity at the Old North Church last night and the
tremendous experience and inspirational opportunity today, first in Concord
and now in Lexington, gives to me a new feeling and a new strength about our
country.
I thank all of you in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts for inaugurating our
Bicentennial in such a wonderful way. You have given to the rest of America the
guidance and the inspiration to make our Bicentennial what it ought to be.
Now, I have read and kind of memorized what took place here in Lexington,
but all of you know it much, much better than I, so I will not repeat it on this
occasion. It means much to you, but it means much to America, what transpired
and took place 200 years ago right here in Lexington.
But I think we have to not only look back at what sacrifices were made, what
efforts were made, [but] what progress has been made. And in 200 years, we
have gone from 13 poor, struggling colonies of some 3 million people, divided
in part but united in other ways.
We were poor economically. We had problems of unbelievable proportions,
but that fundamental spirit existed here 200 years ago, and it has grown and
blossomed and flourished, not only with those who were here but those who
have come to the shores since that time.
We should be proud of this two centuries of effort and accomplishment.
But what is even more important, in my judgment, is what we can do in the
next 100 years and the next 100 years.
532
