[394]
July 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
This is a proud day for the Army, the Navy, and the Air Force, but I think
equally important, a proud day for all the American people that they serve
so well.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:32 p.m. at the National Naval Medical Center.
395
Address in Chicago Before the Mid-America Committee for
International Business and Government Cooperation.
July 11, 1975
Thank you very much, Arthur. Senator Chuck Percy, my former colleagues
in the House of Representatives, Brooks McCormick, John Swearingen, dis-
tinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
Let me say at the outset that Betty and I feel very deeply the warmth of
your thoughtfulness and reception, and on her behalf as well as mine, I thank
you very, very much.
This has been a very enjoyable and educational evening with the Mid-Amer-
ican Committee. Coming from Washington, it is good to know there is at
least one committee that really works. [Laughter] With all apologies to you,
Chuck, we have a little trouble with them—not Chuck. Some of those commit-
tees in Washington really are the best places to do nothing that I know.
[Laughter]
Now, if it is true that all roads today lead to America, as they once did to
Rome, then it is also true that America's roads actually lead everywhere. Time,
distance, language, and other barriers and other boundaries of the years in the
past disappear almost daily, and the facts of life are that they will disappear
more rapidly and more readily in the future. Whether we like it or not, we live
in a competitive world of swift communication and dynamic change.
This evening, with your indulgence, I would offer you a quieter and perhaps
a longer look at America and the world, not a stop-and-go, short-term view of
the United States programs and policies, not the world of immediate answers
and instant cures, but some long-term observations on the long-range future
of our country.
America's first order of business-at least my first order of business, and I
think it is that of 214 million Americans-is full economic recovery.
960
