February 3
[64]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
government. I am confident that we can overcome today's challenges as we have
overcome others in the past-and go on to greater achievements.
My budget recommendations are designed to meet longer-term national needs
as well as immediate short-run objectives. It is vital that they do so. Because of
the size and momentum of the budget, today's decisions will have far-reaching
and long-lasting effects.
The recommendations set forth in this budget are an integral part of the
broader series of proposals outlined in my State of the Union address. These
proposals provide for:
-fiscal policy actions to increase purchasing power and stimulate economic
revival, including tax reductions and greatly increased aid to the unemployed;
-a major new energy program that will hold down energy use, accelerate
development of domestic energy resources, and promote energy research and
development;
---an increase in outlays for defense in order to maintain preparedness and
preserve force levels in the face of rising costs;
-a one-year moratorium on new Federal spending programs other than
energy programs; and
-a temporary 5% ceiling on increases in pay for Federal employees, and on
those benefit payments to individuals that are tied to changes in consumer prices.
These policies call for decisive action to restore economic growth and energy
self-reliance. My proposals include a one-time $16 billion tax cut-$12 billion
for individual taxpayers and $4 billion for businesses-to stimulate economic
recovery.
Total Federal outlays are estimated to increase 11% between 1975 and 1976.
It is essential that we keep a tight rein on spending, to prevent it from rising
still further and making tax reduction imprudent. I believe that tax relief, not
more Government spending, is the key to turning the economy around to re-
newed growth.
I regret that my budget and tax proposals will mean bigger deficits tempo-
rarily, for I have always opposed deficits. We must recognize, however, that if
economic recovery does not begin soon, the Treasury will lose anticipated receipts
and incur even larger deficits in the future.
My energy program calls for an increased fee on imported oil, and an excise
tax on domestically produced petroleum and natural gas. The proposals also
call for decontrol of oil prices—coupled with a windfall profits tax—and dereg-
ulation of prices on new natural gas. These measures will discourage excessive
energy use and reduce our dependence on imported oil. The $30 billion in re-
147
