February 4
[71]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Taking a page from Dr. Sullivan, I have outlined an economic and energy
program to the Nation and to the Congress to allow us, all of us 213 million
Americans, to help ourselves out of our current difficulties. My plan, like all
self-help, requires some sacrifice. It requires some energy, some time, and some
dedication. And those are hallmarks in the creed of an OIC.
For one thing, we will be called upon to pay more for energy for a long
time to come until we in this country can produce enough energy for our needs
at home. Now, some critics of what I have recommended to the Congress and
to the American people suggest it is possible to solve our problems without
making serious demands on all of the American people. Some of the critics
have picked out one out of a series of interconnected problems and offered a
seemingly popular solution to meet that particular piece of the difficulty.
I might say, this is like looking at a 3-hour test or a 3-hour examination
and picking one question to give an answer. You know, it is always a good
way to flunk a test. As I looked back on my academic efforts, you cannot get
a passing grade in an examination by just answering one of 50 questions. You
have to answer all 50 and do the best you can.
It is my strong feeling and conviction that what I have recommended to
improve our economy and to solve our energy program-it tackles all of the
questions and offers answers that I am convinced will work. Now, all answers,
we well know, are not easy or politically appealing, but they meet the problems
head-on. To those who question the decision to work on the energy problem at
a time when the Nation faces both inflation and recession, I respectfully say
this: The energy problem will not wait; besides, it is a big part of our economic
problem.
For the past decade, there has been talk and more talk and more talk about
the dangers of our increasing dependence on foreign oil. During the embargo,
we found out how real that particular danger was, and still no hard choices were
made. It is my sincere conviction that we must reduce our foreign oil con-
sumption. We must encourage domestic production. We must speed up the use
of other energy sources such as coal and nuclear and solar power. We must
develop new methods of producing energy.
I am glad to report to you that in the budget that went to the Congress just
yesterday, I have requested the appropriation of some $2,200 million so that we
can develop those necessary domestic capabilities of energy—and geothermal,
solar, and other unique and different sources of energy.
We can go back to the 1960's-and that is not too long ago for some of us to
remember. This country had a surplus of capacity of crude oil which we were
179
