January 23
[43]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
THE PRESIDENT. No, I fully understand their problem. The Governors, as I
said a moment ago, represent individual States, but I have to take a look at the
national interest, across-the-board. And my comprehensive energy conservation,
energy-producing plan, will solve the problem of energy vulnerability in the
United States.
Q. Mr. President, Mr. Jackson and Mr. Ullman¹ said they would try to re-
scind your proclamation. Is that within their legal right? Can they rescind it?
THE PRESIDENT. The Congress does have the authority to repeal a law, but to
take a backward step, in my opinion, is not a way to solve the energy problem.
Thank you very much. It is nice to see you out here.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:12 p.m. at the West
Wing Portico of the White House, following a
meeting in the Cabinet Room with the Governors
of New Jersey, New York, Massachusetts, Connecti-
cut, Maine, Rhode Island, Vermont, Pennsylvania,
New Hampshire, and Delaware.
43
Remarks to Members of the National Newspaper
Publishers Association. January 23, 1975
Thank you very much, Dr. Goodlett. Members of the Cabinet, members of
the Administration, ladies and gentlemen:
I welcome you all to Washington and to the White House. And may I say,
Dr. Goodlett, that our new Vice President, a man who has had an outstanding
record in State government, I am sure will undertake the same kind of liaison
one of his predecessors had, and I will personally speak to Vice President Rocke-
feller, urging that such a similar relationship be developed, if that is the wish
and the desire of this organization.
If I might make a comment or two about weeklies, I think the record will
show that when I was campaigning 13 times for the Congress of the United
States, 12 times for reelection, I put an abnormal percentage of my advertising
budget into weeklies. I thought then and I still believe that weeklies are an
outstanding means of communication between the publishers and their individ-
uals who subscribe.
I always felt, as I traveled around my own Congressional district, that I could
learn more about my Congressional district from those editors than I could
from almost any other segment of my constituency. I am sure that all of you fit
the same pattern.
Senator Henry M. Jackson of Washington, and Representative Al Ullman, chairman of the House Ways
and Means Committee.
87
