February 4
[72]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
to urban violence, the possible effect of continued high unemployment for
such a prolonged period of time?
THE PRESIDENT. I did notice the request of the mayors for an additional
$15 billion over and above what I have recommended in helping the cities
through general revenue sharing, through the community development pro-
gram, through the emergency unemployment program. I believe that the com-
bination of recommendations I have made-in those I have mentioned and
some others—will meet the problems in our major metropolitan cities, and I
do not believe that we should go beyond those in meeting the particular prob-
lems in those communities.
Q. With your austerity program, will they be able to get that $15 billion
that they requested?
THE PRESIDENT. I must respectfully disagree with the way you labeled my
program as an “austerity program." It is not an austerity program when you
submit a budget for $349 billion, $36 billion more than the budget for the cur-
rent fiscal year, and a budget that provides for $15 billion more in income trans-
fer payments. So, it is not an austere budget. It is a very expensive budget.
Because we have good programs to help the unemployed, to train those people
who are unemployed, to help people on social security and other retirement
programs, I do not believe we need the extra $15 billion recommended by the
various mayors.
THE CONGRESS AND NATIONAL DEFENSE
[7.] Q. Mr. President, Ron Wilson, Georgia Network. Would you com-
ment, please, on Senator Jackson's assessment of the 94th Congress? He says it
could possibly be the most dangerous in history in terms of the willingness on
the part of some Congressmen to relax our defense posture.]
THE PRESIDENT. I had not seen Senator Jackson's description of the potentials
of the 94th Congress. I hope that that description is not an accurate one, and
I am going to wait and see whether they do take the kind of action that might
destroy our military capability. I usually agree with Senator Jackson on national
defense appropriations, policies, et cetera. If this Congress does slash, without
rhyme or reason, the military budget that I have submitted, it could jeopardize
our national security. I think it is premature to say they will. I certainly hope
they don't. But I can say, without any hesitation, that I will vigorously oppose
any attempt to slash, without rhyme or reason, our military strength as repre-
sented in the budget that I have submitted.
¹ The reporter erred in attributing the remarks to Senator Henry M. Jackson of Washington. The remarks
were made by Senator Barry Goldwater of Arizona.
187
