[249]
May 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
say without reservation, we are determined to deal affirmatively with those prob-
lems, and we will deal with them.
The Prime Minister's visit gives us the benefit of his experience and his wis-
dom in assessing the current situation in that part of the world. It also gives me
the opportunity to assure him that our commitments in Southeast Asia and
elsewhere, if I might add, are honored and will be honored, and that our con-
cern for the security and for the welfare of free nations in Southeast Asia is
undiminished.
Mr. Prime Minister and Mrs. Lee, it is a great pleasure for Mrs. Ford and my-
self to have you here with us this evening and at last to have an opportunity to
have an acquaintanceship and a fine evening with you. Both Mrs. Ford and I
have looked forward to this for some time.
Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you now to raise your glasses and join with me
in offering a toast to the Prime Minister of Singapore and to Mrs. Lee.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:01 p.m. in the
State Dining Room at the White House. Prime
Minister Lee responded as follows:
Mr. President, Mrs. Ford, ladies and gentlemen:
It is 2 years since I was here as a guest on a
similar occasion-a guest of your predecessor. For
America, her. friends and allies, the world has been
somewhat diminished since then.
In the first years after the end of World War II,
the great events were the cold war, the Marshall
plan, the Berlin blockade, the Korean war. In each
one of these trials of will and strength, America and
her allies in Western Europe, and later Japan,
came out strong and united.
But the dramatic turn of events of the last 2
years-the war in the Middle East in October 1973,
followed by an oil embargo, a four-fold increase
in oil prices, the partitioning of Cyprus in June
1974, and more recently, the loss of Cambodia to
the Khmer Rouge and the capture of South Viet-
nam by the North Vietnamese army-have weak-
ened America and her allies.
Economic recession and increased unemployment
on top of the crisis of confidence of a Watergate and
other related issues bequeathed a host of problems
on your great office. They have become the more
difficult to resolve because of bitterness and animos-
ities within America and between America and her
allies over past policies and, worse, over suspected
future courses of action.
Then, as the United States was near distraction as
a result of these problems, the North Vietnamese
who had been well supplied in the meantime with
arms by her allies, struck with suddenness and
boldness and brought off a great political coup, rout-
ing the South Vietnamese army.
They had judged the mood of America correctly.
They got away with it. These events have grave
implications for the rest of Asia and, I make bold
to suggest, subsequently for the rest of the world.
I hope you would not think it inappropriate of
me to express more than just sympathy or even sor-
row that so many Americans were killed and
maimed and so much resources expended by succes-
sive Democratic and Republican administrations to
reach this result. It was an unmitigated disaster. It
was not inevitable that this should. have been so,
especially in this catastrophic manner, nor the
problems would now end just with Communist con-
trol of Cambodia, South Vietnam, and Laos, and of
their allegiance to competing Communist centers
of power.
Now, much will depend upon your Adminis-
tration getting problems back into perspective. An
economically weakened America with recession
dampening the economies of Western Europe and
Japan leading to falling commodity prices for the
developing world-other than the oil producers-
was threatening to further weaken other non-
Communist governments the world over.
Now, it looks as if the worst may be over. It
may take some time and no little effort to sort out
the complex problems of the Middle East, to re-
move the threat of a sudden cut in supplies in oil
at reasonable prices.
Next comes the restoration of confidence in the
capacity of the United States to act in unison in a
crisis. No better service can be done to
Communist governments the world over than to
restore confidence that the American Government
can and will act swiftly and in tandem between the
Administration and Congress in any case of open
658
