[283]
May 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
Four months ago, I sent the Congress this 167-page draft of detailed legislation,
plus some additional tax proposals. My program was designed to conserve the
energy we now have, while at the same time speeding up the development and
production of new domestic energy. Although this would increase the cost of
energy until new supplies were fully tapped, those dollars would remain in this
country and would be returned to our own economy through tax cuts and rebates.
I asked the Congress in January to enact this urgent 10-year program for
energy independence within 90 days-that is, by mid-April.
In the meantime, to get things going, I said I would use the standby Presidential
authority granted by the Congress to reduce our use of foreign petroleum by
raising import fees on each barrel of crude oil by $1 on February 1, another dollar
on March 1, and a third on April 1.
As soon as Congress acted on my comprehensive energy program, I promised
to take off these import fees. I imposed the first dollar on oil imports February 1,
making appropriate exemptions for hardship situations.
Now, what did the Congress do in February about energy? Congress did
nothing—nothing, that is, except rush through legislation suspending for 90
days my authority to impose any import fees on foreign oil. Congress needed
time, they said.
At the end of February, the Democratic leaders of the House and Senate and
other Members concerned with energy came to the White House. They gave me
this pamphlet outlining energy goals similar to mine and promised to come up
with a Congressional energy program better than mine by the end of April. I
remember one of them saying he didn't see how they could ask the President to
do more than postpone the second dollar for 60 days. If the Congress couldn't
come up with an energy program by then, he said, go ahead and put
it on.
Their request stretched my original deadline by a couple of weeks. But I
wanted to be reasonable; I wanted to be cooperative. So, in vetoing their bill to
restrict the President's authority, I agreed to their request for a 60-day delay
before taking the next step under my energy plan.
What did the Congress do in March? What did the Congress do in April about
energy? Congress did nothing.
In fairness, I must say there were diligent efforts by some Members—
Democrats as well as Republicans—to fashion meaningful energy legislation in
their subcommittees and committees. My Administration worked very hard with
them to bring a real energy independence bill to a vote. At the end of April, the
deadline set by the Congressional leaders themselves, I deferred for still another
730
