[204]
April 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
U.S. MARINES IN THE SOUTH PACIFIC
[1.] MR. CRONKITE. Mr. President, just this moment as we came on the air,
I was surprised over this little machine here that the Associated Press and the
United Press International are reporting from Honolulu that a large number
of battle-equipped Marines, 800 or so, have left Hawaii by air on chartered air-
craft. Can you tell us what their destination is and what's up?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, that is part of a movement to strengthen, or to bring up
to strength, the Marine detachment in that area of the Pacific. It is not an unusual
military movement. On the other hand, we felt, under the circumstances, that
it was wise to bring the Marine group in that area of the world—the South
Pacific-up to strength.
MR. CRONKITE. Can you tell us where they are going, sir?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, they're going—I don't think I should be any more
definitive than that.
MR. CRONKITE. They are not going directly to Saigon are they?
THE PRESIDENT. No, they are not.
VIETNAM CONFLICT
[2.] MR. CRONKITE. Now that President Thieu has resigned, which was the
big news of this morning, of course, are we involved in or are we acting as
intermediary in any negotiations for a peaceful settlement out there?
The PRESIDENT. We are exploring with a number of governments nego-
tiating opportunities. But in this very rapid change, with President Thieu
stepping down, there really hasn't been an opportunity for us to make contact
with a new government. And the net result is we are planning to explore with
them, and with other governments in that area or connected with that area, so
that we don't miss any opportunity to try and get a cease-fire.
MR. SEVAREID. Mr. President, what is your own estimate of the situation
now? Do you think that the Hanoi people want to negotiate the turnover of
the city, a peaceful turnover, or just drive ahead?
THE PRESIDENT. Eric, I wish I knew. I don't think anybody can be absolutely
certain, except the North Vietnamese themselves.
You get the impression that in the last few days they were anxious to move
in very quickly for a quick takeover. On the other hand, within the last 12, 24
hours, there seems to be a slowdown. It is not certain from what we see, just
what their tactic will be. We naturally hope that there is a period when the
540
