[91]
February 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
and all of the other public officials who are here paying tribute to Nelson, as I
am, because we all think he was not only a great Governor but I think he is a
great Vice President.
You know, there is a somewhat trite slogan that says, "Ford has a better idea.”
Well, I am here tonight to tell you that one of the best ideas this Ford ever
had was nominating Nelson Rockefeller to be Vice President of the United
States.
All of you know as well as I, if not better than I, that Nelson Rockefeller has
been a distinguished public servant, a sensitive and compassionate humanitarian,
a superbly able Governor, and now he has embarked on even a new and greater
challenge, the second highest office in this great land of ours.
Mr. Vice President, I hope to share for a very, very long time your counsel,
your confidence, and your wonderful company. And I will add with a personal
footnote, I know Happy³ will look forward to that with you as well.
But in all honesty or fairness, Mr. Vice President, I must admit that in your
career you have also had a few less memorable moments. In the 1960's the Vice
President was a very strong supporter of John Lindsay, and John became a
Democrat. He was a very strong supporter of Ogden Reid,* and Brownie became
a Democrat. And now, the only thing that bothers me-he is a very strong
supporter of me. [Laughter]
Frankly, though, Nelson, I don't think I could do that—to the Democrats.
That's all they need right now—is one more candidate for President. [Laughter]
Tonight we pay tribute to a man of unlimited talent, outstanding accomplish-
ment, and boundless enthusiasm. When Nelson tackles a project, he gives it
everything he's got. Now, using a little wrestling jargon, I have never known
him to apply a half nelson to anything. [Laughter]
Therefore, I am designating the Vice President to be the Vice Chairman of
my Domestic Council, with the responsibility of overseeing its vitally important
work. He will assist me in carrying out my responsibilities for the domestic policy
formulation with a broad conceptual framework.
And I want the Domestic Council to undertake, if I might list them, the fol-
lowing responsibilities: First, assessing national needs and identifying alternative
ways of meeting them; second, providing rapid response to Presidential needs
for policy advice; third, coordinating the establishment of national priorities for
the allocation of available resources; fourth, maintaining a continuous policy of
3 Mrs. Nelson A. Rockefeller.
Ogden R. Reid, U.S. Representative 1963-75.
248
