April 21
[204]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
fighting will cease or the military activity will become less intense so that
negotiations might be undertaken or even a cease-fire achieved.
But it is so fluid right now, I don't think anybody can be certain what the
North Vietnamese are going to do.
MR. SEVAREID. Are they communicating with our Government through third
parties or otherwise?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we have communications with other governments. I
can't tell you whether the North Vietnamese are communicating with them or
not. I don't know.
MR. SEVAREID. President Thieu, when he stepped down, said that one of the
reasons was American pressure. What was our role in his resignation?
THE PRESIDENT. Our Government made no direct request that President
Thieu step down. There was no pressure by me or anyone in Washington in
that regard.
There may have been some on the scene in Saigon who may have talked to
President Thieu. But there was no pressure from here to force President Thieu
to step down, and he made, I am sure, the final decision all on his own.
MR. SEVAREID. But surely our representatives there would not speak without
your authority on this matter?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, it is a question of how you phrase it. We never asked
anybody to ask him to step down. There were discussions as to whether or not
he should or shouldn't, but there was no direct request from me for him to
relinquish his role as the head of state.
After all, he was an elected President. He was the head of that government,
properly chosen, so his decision, as far as we know, was made totally on his
own.
MR. SCHIEFFER. Mr. President, on the evacuation, you have expressed hope
that something could be arranged so tens of thousands of loyal South Viet-
namese could be brought out of the country.
Do you think it is possible to have something like that if the North Viet-
namese oppose it or if the Vietcong are not willing to go along with it? Are
any kind of negotiations underway now to try to set up some sort of an
arrangement like that?
THE PRESIDENT. I would agree with you that if the North Vietnamese make a
military effort, it would be virtually impossible to do so unless we moved in sub-
stantial U.S. military personnel to protect the evacuation.
On the other hand, if the South Vietnamese should make it difficult, in their
disappointment that our support hadn't been as much as they thought it should
541
