May 14
[253]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:26 p.m. in the East
Room at the White House. In his opening remarks,
he referred to Dr. Indalecio Liévano Aguirre, Min-
ister of Foreign Relations of Colombia and Chairman
of the General Assembly.
252
Statement on House Action Sustaining Veto of the Emergency
Agricultural Bill. May 13, 1975
I COMMEND the House of Representatives' action in sustaining, by a com-
fortable margin, my veto of the Emergency Agricultural Act of 1975,¹ com-
monly known as the farm bill.
The 182 Members who supported my veto acted in the best interests of the
economy, of the consumer, and of farmers themselves. The bill would have
refired inflation and set back the recent progress made in freeing farmers from
Federal controls. The American farmer does a terrific job and will do a better
job without the restraints this bill would have imposed.
This vote proves that there is enough concern in both parties in this Congress
to hold the line on the deficit. I will continue to fight for Federal fiscal respon-
sibility and welcome this show of support.
253
Message to the Congress Transmitting First Annual Report of the
National Council on Educational Research. May 14, 1975
To the Congress of the United States:
I am pleased to send you the first Annual Report of the National Council
on Educational Research as required by Public Law 92-318, Title III (Section
405(c)(3)(f) of the General Education Provisions Act, as amended).
The Council is the policy-making body of the National Institute of Education
which was created by the Congress to provide national leadership in the conduct
of educational research and development.
I remain committed to a strong Federal role in research and development in
education and to support the National Institute of Education and the National
Council on Educational Research as the primary vehicles responsible for the
Federal role. The Institute is now well advanced in its program directed toward
specific and pressing educational problems.
See Item 232.
663
