[61]
January 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:53 p.m. in the State
Dining Room at the White House. Prime Minister
Wilson responded as follows:
Mr. President, Mrs. Ford, Mr. Vice President, Mrs.
Rockefeller, Your Excellencies, distinguished fellow
parliamentarians of both Houses of Congress, ladies
and gentlemen:
On behalf, Mr. President, of all those who have
traveled with me for this meeting this week, I
should like to express our sincere thanks for your
warm hospitality and for your kindness in inviting
tonight so great and distinguished a company of
your fellow countrymen, many of them old friends of
mine, very many of whom to my personal knowledge
have contributed to the full in maintaining and
strengthening our transatlantic friendship.
The tradition of meetings between the govern-
ments of our two countries is rooted deep in our his-
tory. The very informality and friendship of these
meetings, as we have found again today, so far from
being a bar to the deep and wide-ranging probing of
world problems, these things are themselves a
guarantee that these problems, fearlessly faced, will
be resolutely handled.
In my experience, the value of these Anglo-
American intergovernmental and equally, may I say,
interparliamentary associations that strengthen our
relationship-the value of them rests in the fact
that when we meet, there is so much that just does
not need to be said between us.
It is all taken for granted, whether it be the
assertion of the principles which we jointly hold
or whether it be the obligations upon us to work
together towards the solution of our own problems
and those of the world. And it saves a great deal
of time, because we don't even have to go back to
first base and repeat these things one to another.
From my experience of intergovernmental meet-
ings in this city and in London, now going back
more than a quarter of a century, I repeat tonight
what I said to my hosts on Capitol Hill this after-
noon. I repeat that I cannot recall a time when our
relationship was so close or our understanding so
deep as it is at this time as we meet, Mr. President,
this week.
In past years and for more than a generation-
many would say for many generations-our peoples
have worked together and indeed fought together
to secure and strengthen the peace of the world and
the role that democracy can play and must play
within that world.
Last year 15 North American and European
nations celebrated the 25th anniversary of the At-
lantic Alliance. As a surviving member of the Attlee
Cabinet in Britain, which jointly with President
Truman's administration played so large a part in
creating that alliance, I asked last year at the cele-
brations how many of us in 1949 could have foreseen
the enduring strength of the alliance, still less fore-
see the contribution it would make and is making
for peace and for the defense of democracy in some
of those dangerous years which have laid between.
But whenever peace was in danger, whenever
democracy was threatened, there were always lead-
ers in our two countries ready to work together in
joint action and in a wider setting to meet whatever
challenge faced us, nor at any time did those leaders
lack the unstinted support of their peoples.
But always we set before us the objective, not just
of building strength for its own sake or even build-
ing strength just for our own defense; always we
have looked on strength as a means to peace and
to reconciliation and to détente.
It is these aims that we are together again this
week pursuing with world leaders. It is these aims
that Her Majesty's Government will continue to as-
sert when the Foreign Secretary and I visit Moscow
in 2 weeks' time.
But, Mr. President, in a wider sense, our talks
this week are being directed to still greater, still
wider, still newer problems which have arisen to
threaten the economic life of our own nations and
of so many other nations of the world, rich and
poor. It is out of the very nature of the challenges
we have faced together-challenges which now are
to the economic advance, challenges to the well-
being for all the peoples of the world-it is out of
the nature of the very challenge, it is also out of
the understandings developed between us in the past
that we must now in this new situation forge still
newer instruments for meeting the economic prob-
lems, these problems the gravity of which-and they
are grave-serve only to strengthen the joint resolu-
tion which we shall put forward together.
In this spirit, Mr. President, thanking you again
for your wonderful hospitality today and this eve-
ning, it is in this spirit that we undertake together
the discussions of this week, and it is in this spirit,
too, that we shall go forward together.
In that spirit, Mr. President, may I now have the
honor, on behalf of your visitors here this week and
of this great company, of proposing the health and
prosperity of the President of the United States and
of Mrs. Ford.
140
