February 3
[69]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Conference on Domestic and Economic Affairs. I know that you have had a very
eventful, productive day, so I will not try to repeat the points that other speakers
have already made. But I would like to stress one thing about these conferences—
their diversity.
Here in Atlanta, for example, as Bill Baroody indicated, some 15 different
Georgia organizations have participated—organizations representing the whole
spectrum of labor, business, agriculture, civic activities.
This being the second such conference that I have attended—one in Portland,
Oregon, and one here-I know that this diversity is important for two basic
reasons. In the first place, it gives me and other Washington officials who par-
ticipate—such as Jim Lynn, Cap Weinberger, Bill Seidman, Bill Baroody, Frank
Zarb, Tom Kleppe, Mike Duval-a real opportunity to discuss the pressing
national issues with the people who are affected by them at the grassroots, and
thereby, it improves the communication between national and local leadership.
And it is my complete and total judgment that only in this way, together, can
we generate the kind of mutual confidence and the kind of mutual trust that we
will need to turn our economy around and start America back on the road to
recovery.
Secondly, this varied, representative group is kind of a mini-America, since
most of the participants here can agree on the broad problems, the broad chal-
lenges that we face individually and collectively-not necessarily on the details
of solution, but on the general thrust. Then, I think, there is good reason to hope
for broad national agreement on the solutions as well.
And that is what I would like to discuss with you, some of the shared con-
cerns, the shared ideas that are beginning to emerge from the new and vigorous
national dialog on energy and on the economy. For me, they represent the com-
mon interests that will unite us into action in the crucial days ahead.
Since my television address to the Nation and my State of the Union Message
to the Congress 2 weeks ago, I believe that this process of uniting our people
in the face of clear challenges has made substantial headway. I see a broad,
national consensus forming in at least five major problem areas: recession, tax
relief and reform, jobs and productivity, energy, and last but not least, inflation.
Today, for the first time since the energy crisis began and recession became
a major concern, most Americans are not only solidly agreed on the problem
that we must solve but they are agreed that solutions must be forthcoming
soon.
To start us on the road to economic recovery, most of us, for example, now
2 See 1974 volume, Item 214.
167
