April 17
[191]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
have always placed my confidence in photography as a medium to get any
message across. And now, as President, I know that the members of the White
House News Photographers Association, along with members of our own White
House Photographic Department, are creating a unique contribution to the
Presidential record—a vital day-by-day, hour-by-hour, and often minute-by-
minute portrayal of the event on their way to becoming history.
Your efforts today will breathe new life into the textbooks of tomorrow. You
leave not footprints, but color prints, in the sands of time.
On a more personal level, Betty and I thank all of you for the kindness, for
the courtesy that you have shown both of us. In the past 8 months, we have
shared many happy moments and a few sad ones as well.
But I want you to know how much your good will and your good wishes
have meant to both of us. And my wish tonight is that it will always continue
to be so, and that as photographers and as friends you will never have cause
to take a dim view of the White House.
Thank you and good night.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:23 p.m. in the
Grand Ballroom at the Sheraton-Park Hotel. In his
remarks, he referred to Bernard M. Boston, Wash-
ington Star-News, president of the association;
Frank B. Johnston, Washington Post, chairman of
the dinner; Ambassador John A. Scali, U.S. Repre-
sentative to the United Nations; Eric H. Rosen-
berger, Staff Assistant to the President; David Hume
Kennerly, Personal Photographer to the President;
Cleveland Ryan, network pool lighting technician;
George Tames of the New York Times; Wallace
McNamee of Newsweek; and Roddey E. Mims of
UPI News-pictures.
Prior to his remarks, the President was presented
with a bound collection of the association's prize
winning photographs.
191
Statement on the Fall of the Cambodian Government.
April 17, 1975
THE United States views the fall of the Government of the Khmer Republic
with sadness and compassion.
I wish to express my admiration for the Cambodian Government leaders and
people, who showed great courage until the end, and to their armed forces who
fought valiantly with their remaining supplies.
NOTE: Elements of the Khmer Rouge entered the city of Phnom Penh on April 17, 1975, after a siege lasting
approximately 4 months.
507
