[125]
March 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. I think you have to understand the differences that we have
with China—the People's Republic of China-and with the Soviet Union. We do
not accept their ideology. We do not accept their philosophy. On the other hand,
we have to recognize that both countries have great power bases in the world,
not only in population but in the regions in which they exist.
We do not expect to recognize or to believe in their philosophies. But it is
important for us, the United States, to try and remove any of the obstacles that
keep us from working together to solve some of the problems that exist through-
out the world, including Indochina.
The Soviet Union and the People's Republic of China have supplied and are
supplying military assistance to South Vietnam and Cambodia. We have to
work with them to try and get an answer in that part of the world. But at the
same time, I think that effort can be increased and the prospects improved if
we continue the détente between ourselves and both of those powers.
Tom [Tom Brokaw, NBC News].
Q. Mr. President, putting it bluntly, wouldn't we just be continuing a blood-
bath that already exists in Cambodia if we voted the $222 million in assistance?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think so, because the prospects are that with the kind
of military assistance and economic and humanitarian aid we are proposing,
the government forces hopefully can hold out. Now, if we do not,
the
prospects
are almost certain that Phnom Penh will be overrun. And we know from
previous experiences that the overrunning of a community or an area results
in the murder and the bloodshed that comes when they pick up and sort out the
people who were the schoolteachers, the leaders, the government officials.
This was told very dramatically to me yesterday by several Members of the
Congress who were there and talked to some of the people who were in some
of these communities or villages that were overrun.
It is an unbelievable horror story. And if we can hold out-and I think the
prospects are encouraging-then I think we will avoid that kind of massacre
and innocent murdering of people who really do not deserve that kind of
treatment.
Q. Mr. President, if I may follow up: As I understand it, the Administration's
point is that if we vote the aid that we will have the possibility of a negotiated
settlement, not just the avoidance of a bloodbath. Is that correct?
THE PRESIDENT. That is correct, sir.
Q. And yet, just yesterday, as you indicated in your statement, the State
Department listed at least six unsuccessful efforts to negotiate an end to the war
in Cambodia, dating to the summer of 1973, when American bombing stopped
324
