July 1
[371]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
new cures and deliver the best possible treatment to all Americans. Above all
else, it is that goal I am here to reaffirm today.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:29 a.m. in the
Clinical Center at the National Institutes of Health,
Bethesda, Md., following the swearing in of Theo-
dore Cooper as Assistant Secretary of Health, and
Donald Fredrickson as Director of the National
Institutes of Health.
371
Remarks on Greeting the Presidential Scholars for 1975.
July 1, 1975
Secretary Weinberger, Senator Bob Dole, Dr. Trotter, Dr. Bell, Chairman
Wallis, ladies and gentlemen, and particularly all of you honored guests—the
Presidential Scholars:
First, let me welcome you all most sincerely to the White House in this
beautiful East Garden. This is a typical Washington day. [Laughter]
I must also, with emphasis, congratulate you on the outstanding record of
achievement and leadership ability which has made it possible for you to be here
today.
As Presidential Scholars, you represent one of the most select, truly one of the
most distinguished groups of young people in this country today. You have
demonstrated your talents in a diversity of fields—in the humanities, in the arts,
and in the sciences.
And outside of the academic realm, which I think is vastly important, you
have been active in a great variety of student and community service organiza-
tions where you have shown remarkable leadership capabilities.
I'd like to commend the Office of Education, too, for giving recognition to
this most distinguished group of gifted young men and young women.
Secretary Weinberger, through his presentation of the medals commemorating
this honor, has shown his personal interest as well, as well as the interest of the
entire department, in rewarding individuals for their initiative and their desire
to achieve. And thanks must also be given to the members of the Commission
on Presidential Scholars and the Educational Testing Service for the donation
of their time and efforts in completing the selection process.
I am delighted to join with the many, many parents here today when I say
that we have very good reason for all of us being extremely proud of a nation
that is able to produce young people of such high caliber. More importantly, I
907
