June 27
[364]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
achieve a high-priority energy goal—a 40-percent improvement in automobile
fuel efficiency within 4 years.
Since that time, I have received information concerning potential health
hazards from certain automobile pollution control devices first used on 1975 cars.
In response to this information, I ordered an executive branch review of the
problem and asked the appropriate officials to consider the various impacts of a
range of emission alternatives as they relate to public health, energy goals, con-
sumer prices, and environmental objectives.
This review has now been completed. We have carefully surveyed this matter
with many scientists and other qualified authorities. Although there is some
disagreement on the data and conclusions, there is general accord that it is im-
possible to accurately predict the adverse impacts likely to result if we move to
stricter automobile pollution standards now. Most of the experts agree that
tighter emission controls will limit the fuel economy potential of our cars, and
all agree that they will increase costs to the consumer.
As the automobile manufacturers have responded to Federal requirements to
remove pollutants from automobile exhaust, other unregulated pollutants with
potentially serious health implications have been produced. The same devices
designed to control some emissions may result in the creation or aggravation of
other pollutants. The result of government-mandated changes to our automo-
biles could actually increase prices, without substantial environmental benefits
but with possible new risk to the Nation's health.
As a result of actions already taken, the automobile is rapidly becoming less
of a contributor to air pollution. A major part of our task is behind us. But it was
the easiest part. We have now reached the point where the further incremental
progress we all want can only be achieved slowly and at higher cost.
I, therefore, urge the Congress to consider how uncoordinated Federal laws
mandating automobile fuel efficiency and emission control might work against
each other, and how they will affect other national objectives such as public
health and a strong economy.
In view of these considerations, I have decided to revise my Administration's
position proposed in the energy independence act. We simply cannot afford to
be wrong on such serious policies. I have concluded that we should maintain
the current automobile emission standards through model year 1981. This will
enable us to achieve the following objectives:
Health-Avoid increasing the potential adverse health impacts of certain
automobile emission devices by retaining current controls on known health
hazards, such as carbon monoxide and hydrocarbons, without the risk of in-
893
