March 6
[125]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
I would hope that that terrorist activity would not, under any circumstances,
destroy the prospects or the possibilities for further peace accomplishments in
the Middle East.
Q. Mr. President, to follow up on that, have you considered asking Israel to
become part of NATO?
THE PRESIDENT. I have not.
CAMBODIA
[11.] Q. Mr. President, you sounded encouraged about the prospect for
Cambodian aid. Can you give us an estimate of what you think the chances
are now of it being passed?
The President. They are certainly better than they were. I had a meeting
this morning with Senator Sparkman and Senator Hubert Humphrey and Sen-
ator Clifford Case. They want to help. They say the prospects are 50-50. But
if they are that, I think we ought to try and make the effort, because I think
the stakes are very, very high when you involve the innocent people who are
being killed in Cambodia.
Q. May I follow up? If the Congress does not provide the aid and the Lon
Nol government should fall, would the country be in for any recrimination
from this Administration? Would we have another "who lost China” debate,
for example?
THE PRESIDENT. I first would hope we get the aid and the government is
able to negotiate a settlement. I do not think—at least from my point of view-
that I would go around the country pointing my finger at anybody. I think the
facts would speak for themselves.
Q. Mr. President, from some of the remarks the Senators who met with you
today made, they did not indicate that they were quite in as much agreement as
you have indicated, but Senator Humphrey, for one, asked, as part of a negotiated
settlement that you spoke of, if you would be willing to seek the orderly resigna-
tion of President Lon Nol.
THE PRESIDENT. I do not believe it is the proper role of this Government to
ask the head of another state to resign. I said in my opening statement that we
believe that the settlement ought to be undertaken, and it is not one that revolves
around any one individual. And I would hope that some formula—some in-
dividuals on both sides could sit down and negotiate a settlement to stop the
bloodshed.
Q. Could I follow up? On that, are you saying that the United States will
329
