[109]
February 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the commitment that we have to the South Vietnamese
and the commitment that we have to some extent in Cambodia is one that we
as the United States agreed at the Paris peace accords, that we would withdraw
our forces and that, hopefully, peace would be established in Indochina.
Part of our commitment was that we would, in the process or as the result of
the withdrawal of our own military personnel, we would continue to supply
arms on a replacement basis, and that commitment was predicated on the
willingness of the South Vietnamese to fight aggression from North Vietnam.
The South Vietnamese are fighting, are trying to protect their country, and
are seeking to defend their country from invasion. It seems to me that as we
look back at our participation in the Paris accords and the promises that were
made, as long as they were willing to fight against aggression and invasion,
that we had an obligation to help them with military equipment on a replace-
ment basis.
The situation there is one that I am willing to negotiate with the Congress. I
indicated that if the Congress would join with me, we would make a firm and
final decision on a 3-year basis to permit South Vietnam to get over the current
crisis that they face.
I think that would be a reasonable solution. I am told that the South Viet-
namese in a 3-year period, with our military and economic aid, would be able
to handle the situation.
Q. What about Cambodia?
THE PRESIDENT. In Cambodia, the problem there is extremely critical. Unless
there is additional U.S. military aid, as I have recommended, the Cambodians
will run out of ammunition in a relatively short period of time. I think that
would be most unfortunate, because if they are able, between now and the
end of the dry season, to maintain their national integrity-the present govern-
ment—there is a possibility of negotiations that might end the war in Cambodia.
ENERGY AND ECONOMIC PROGRAMS
[4.] Q. Mr. President, with reference to your energy-economic program,
Congress is going off in one direction, you have suggested another direction.
You have also suggested that you are willing to compromise. I wonder if you
might specify some of those areas of compromise?
THE PRESIDENT. I wish there was a single plan proposed by the majority party
in the Congress. It is a slight exaggeration, but there are many, many plans that
have been discussed by the majority party. I can think of three in particular:
the plan that is proposed by Senator Pastore, the plan that is proposed by Con-
290
