May 1
[226]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
the United States to play a leading role in these multilateral negotiations. Our
position will be strengthened, moreover, by the close working arrangements
which have been established between the Executive Branch and the Congress.
Under these arrangements, representatives of the Congress have an important
voice in U.S. policies and are participating fully in the negotiating sessions.
U.S. negotiators will also have the benefit of far more extensive advice from
the public sector than in the past. Public hearings by the International Trade
Commission are in progress. Hearings by the Executive Branch will open soon.
Advisory committees, made up of a cross-section of the public interest and agri-
culture, industry, labor and consumer groups involved, will provide input for
the U.S. negotiating effort at both the policy and technical levels.
The Trade Act, like the earlier Declaration of Tokyo, recognizes the impor-
tance of providing fair and reasonable market access to products exported by
developing countries. As one step toward this objective, the Act provides for
the granting of temporary generalized tariff preferences to such countries. The
mandatory procedural steps for establishing the preference system have been
initiated. When the system is in operation later this year, it will offer substantial
benefits to many developing countries.
I am hopeful that, as implementation moves forward, the Congress will pro-
vide the necessary authority to include other developing countries through
waiver of those restrictions of the Trade Act that are incompatible with our
national interest and to which a number of countries have voiced strong
objections.
At the same time, in signing the Trade Act on January 3, 1975, I expressed
reservations about the wisdom of one of its provisions relating to restrictions
on trade with the Soviet Union which led the U.S.S.R. to repudiate its 1972
trade agreement with the United States. This action by the Soviet Union con-
stitutes an unfortunate setback to normalization of our economic relations with
that country. In a spirit of cooperation with the Congress, I am hopeful that a
solution to this problem can be found.
In light of the serious economic problems in the United States and elsewhere
in the world today, efforts to preserve and build upon past gains in the trade
field are now more urgent and imperative than ever. A more open, fair, and
nondiscriminatory system, providing access to both markets and supplies, can
give a vital stimulus to economic recovery, increased employment, and sound
growth both in the United States and in the world economy. Congress has pro-
vided the mandate for the United States to move forward toward these objectives
in cooperation with other nations. It is my intention to carry out this mandate
613
