[277]
May 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
cetera. We had some wonderful times in Majuro, at Ulithi—that was a delight-
ful place. I was single at the time. But if any of you wives think that your
husbands went astray, there wasn't any room or there wasn't any company. So,
I will verify everything they ever said to you about it. [Laughter]
Then, of course, we had the wonderful experience of the Battle of the Philip-
pines, where we were headed back to Pearl Harbor, I think, and we got orders
to turn around. And we participated in that very important battle as far as
the Pacific was concerned.
Then, of course, the climax was the typhoon on December 18 and 19 of 1944.
I can recall most intimately the coolness, the courage of the skipper. I happened
to be on the bridge as the officer of the deck during general quarters, and we
were in general quarters a long time. [Laughter]
The word came from the Admiral, “Abandon ship, if you so order.” I am
not sure that's the way it went―[laughter]—but one out of the four boilers was
in operation, the fire pumps were manned, the hangar deck fire was extin-
guished, and the Monterey, after about 7 hours dead in the water with one or
two cruisers and three or four destroyers, got underway.
But that was the spirit, that was the attitude of the Monterey. All of you, as
well as myself, are proud of the people, the skippers and the ship. And we should
be thankful that we had the opportunity of fighting for a great country and a
great cause.
I should say one thing. I just talked about the ship's company. Of course, I
do want to congratulate all the members of Air Group 30 and Air Group 28.
They were an integral part and a vital portion of the effort and the success of
the Monterey.
I have some wonderful memories of the pilots, whether they were SBD, F-2's
or 4's or 6's or TBM's or TBF's, they were great people and the crews that
maintained them, that brought them in, that launched them—they were as much
a part of the Monterey as the ship itself.
So, Roger, on behalf of those of us who had the privilege of serving you
and the air groups, I thank you for the great job that all of you did.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:44 p.m. in the main
ballroom at the L'Enfant Plaza Hotel. In his re-
marks, he referred to the following former members
of the crew: Charles A. Webb, Rear Adm. Roger W.
Mehle, Lewis J. "Pappy" Atwood, Allie C. Klein-
peter, Jr., Vice Adm. Stuart H. Ingersoll, L. T.
Hundt, and Dr. Charles Deppe.
Mr. Kleinpeter presented the President with an oil
painting of the U.S.S. Monterey.
722
