April 21
[204]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
very best. It has got fine people running it, managing it. It has got outstanding
equipment and fine employees. It performs, in my judgment, a very useful func-
tion, a very vital part of our transportation system.
It seems to me, however, that as we try to achieve the most efficient com-
mercial airline service in this country at the lowest possible cost, we do have to
have an organization such as the CAB to look after such mundane matters as
fares, routes, competition, and of course, the CAB must not neglect the environ-
ment, energy, and a raft of other important matters that are in the public interest.
In John Robson I think we will have a Chairman who will do an outstanding
job. His experience in the field of transportation goes back to the days when
the Department of Transportation was first established, first as General Counsel
and secondly as Under Secretary, an outstanding lawyer, a person who has had
experience in Government as well as in private practice.
John, it is a privilege and a pleasure for me to be here on this occasion to
participate in your swearing in, and at this point, may I ask Justice Rehnquist to
actually perform the function of making you a member, first, and following that,
I will designate you officially as Chairman of the CAB.
[At this point, William H. Rehnquist, Associate Justice of the Supreme Court, adminis-
tered the oath of office. Following remarks by Mr. Robson, the President resumed speaking.]
Thank you all for coming. We are very grateful. I see around here a good
many old friends. And it is nice to see you. I am sure this occasion will be one
that will be the beginning of a new era as far as the CAB is concerned.
Congratulations again, John.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:04 p.m. in the
Rose Garden at the White House. Mr. Robson's
response to the President's remarks is printed in the
Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents (vol.
11, p. 414).
204
Interview With Walter Cronkite, Eric Sevareid, and
Bob Schieffer of CBS News. April 21, 1975
MR. CRONKITE. Good evening, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Good evening, Walter.
MR. CRONKITE. Thank you for this opportunity to talk with you this evening
here from the Rose [Blue] Room at the White House.
THE PRESIDENT. I am looking forward to it.
539
