April 15
[186]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
There is a lot of negative talk like that going around in Washington and
elsewhere. I think it can best be answered in one word: Nonsense.
The truth is that if we were to somehow travel back in time together to the
American Revolution, we might be more shocked by the similarities than by
the differences. If anything, times were tougher then.
We were a divided people. Many historians estimate that the colonists were
split into three factions: those who favored independence, those who sup-
ported the royal cause, and those who straddled the fence, waiting to see which
side would win.
Inflation was more than a serious problem during the American Revolution.
It was a near-fatal disease. Printing-press money, the so-called Continental
Dollar, was only worth a fraction of its paper value. Many farmers and mer-
chants refused to accept it even from hungry American soldiers trying to
buy provisions.
Too often, American armies were defeated, defeated in battle and driven to
humiliating retreats. Disease, lack of equipment, and lack of training were
chronic. We were dependent on foreign assistance for many of our weapons,
uniforms, and equipment—and even for foreign advisers to train our troops.
If the French Government had not spent millions to help equip American
forces and if we had not been assisted by a French army and a fleet at York-
town, the American Revolution might have dragged on inconclusively for
many, many years.
Yet, out of all of the suffering and uncertainty, a new nation was born and
grew up into one of the biggest and most powerful nations in the history of
the world.
Character had a lot to do with it—the courage and vision of men like Wash-
ington, shared by thousands of soldiers and the valiant, patriotic women who
sustained their fighting men, as they have in all struggles, with their work and
with their prayers.
Values were also very, very important—the moral imperatives and political
ideals that were expressed with such eloquence by Patrick Henry and Thomas
Jefferson and with such clarity by Alexander Hamilton and James Madison.
And Divine Providence also had something to do with it. Nor were our fore-
fathers ashamed to acknowledge their debt to this source of strength in their
dire time of trouble.
Call it Divine Providence or call it destiny, 13 small colonies clustered along
the Atlantic coast somehow managed to produce one of the most brilliant
481
