[271]
May 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
including Tar Heels, must be doing something right. You know it and I know
it, and we are all proud of it.
According to all the statistics, more people are moving today into the South
than away from it. This wonderful part of our Nation is today growing more
rapidly than almost any other part of the United States of America, and for good
and sufficient reason.
You have so many accomplishments to take pride in. In Southern education,
expenditures per pupil have increased by more than 220 percent in the last 25
years-far more than the Nation as a whole. The number of high school
graduates has increased at a much greater rate than in the rest of the country.
There are significant increases in those attending your wonderful institutions of
higher learning.
In industry, the South has today moved from a basic agricultural society to a
modern industrial region which manufactures approximately one-quarter of our
total Nation's output. This is a great comeback from the economic conditions of a
century ago.
I cite these statistics because they verify the potentialities of the South, yes, and
of all America. But it is not the statistics that inspire us today. It is the spirit of the
American people. It is the patriotism, the dedication, the willpower of the
Thirteen Original States which still live in the South and across America today. It
is the vision of the future rather than the mirror of the past which you hold so
deep within yourselves. And I commend you individually and collectively for
the vision, the dedication, the patriotism, and the willpower.
At the time of the American Revolution, some said that America could not
defy the odds that confronted them and us today. There were some who would
roll over and prostrate themselves in self-pity and hopelessness. But there were
many, many more who said, "We are Americans. We can do it!"
They did it, and we can do it!
They were proud to be Americans, just as we are today proud to identify our-
selves with the traditions which made us great and the national character which
will keep us that way.
Our Centennial in 1876 was a renewal and rededication by Americans to our
highest aspirations. Americans-Southerners, Westerners, Easterners, Northern-
ers-all looked to the future.
America emerged from an agricultural and frontier society into an industrial
age. Towns evolved into great cities. Rail transportation and telegraph and tele-
phone tied this vast continent together.
698
