[410]
July 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
better, quicker, and more certain to make it nationwide, rather than the 15
States that are now included in the House version.
Thank you all.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:14 p.m. in the Arl-
ington Room at the Pentagon City Quality Inn. The
SER-Jobs for Progress organization was sponsored
by the American G.I. Forum and the League of
United Latin American Citizens.
In his remarks, the President referred to Fer-
nando E. C. DeBaca, Special Assistant to the Presi-
dent for Hispanic Affairs, and Alex M. Armendaris,
Director of the Office of Minority Business Enter-
prise, Department of Commerce.
411
Remarks in Arlington to Members of the National League of
Families of American Prisoners and Missing in Southeast Asia.
July 17, 1975
Congressman Gilman and all of you who I know have such a deep concern and
personal interest in a matter which concerns me as well as your fellow
Americans:
I welcome you to Washington, and I am honored and pleased to have the
opportunity of meeting with you just for a few minutes.
I am meeting with a group from your organization—I think it is next Tues-
day afternoon and I look forward at that time to talking in depth with your
representatives as to what we can do despite the overwhelming odds against us.
I can assure you that your Government will maximize its efforts despite the
serious problems that we have. And I know there is a proposal, or maybe more
than one, in the Congress to set up a commission or a committee.
We have been working with people from your organization. I have nothing
but the greatest admiration and affection for you, and we in the White House
will do everything we possibly can to get what information to make sure and
certain that in good conscience you can believe that your Government has done
for you what is right, and we will make sure of that.
I am delighted to see you, and I was very pleased to have a chance to stop in
when I learned that all of you were here.
Good luck. God bless you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:40 p.m. in the Capital View Ballroom at the Pentagon City Quality Inn.
1000
