[167]
April 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
the residential environment. The Department of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment has just approved San Diego's application for $9.1 million under the historic
new community development block grant legislation. And an hour or so ago I
gave Mayor Pete Wilson the actual documents to know that he has got it in hand.
I don't know what he has done with it, but he had it. [Laughter]
This confers upon San Diego the distinction of being one of the very first
major cities to receive such assistance. Your able mayor and my good friend,
Pete Wilson, tells me that one of the ways that this grant will be used is to speed
economic development by attracting new businesses and industries into the San
Diego area.
Funds from this new block grant approach are available for the first time to
prepare sites and, together with on-the-job training programs of the Department
of Labor, offer an extra inducement for new enterprises to locate in your already
world-renowned climate.
This kind of local initiative and planning, as well, proves we are on the right
track with block grants instead of trying to run everything from Washington,
and demonstrates my firm conviction that the best features of community devel-
opment should neither be sacrificed in the current economic climate, nor stifled
by Federal redtape.
San Diego-I know from my many conversations with your several Members
of the Congress, as well as by numerous visits to this great area—San Diego is
a showcase of the good neighbor policy. The nearby Mexican border is the
busiest international crossing in the world, making this a gateway city with a
unique challenge. San Diego and Tijuana share the same air and water and
seek joint efforts, joint solutions to problems that cross national boundaries.
I commend Fronteras 1976, the San Diego community's Bicentennial project,
jointly sponsored by the city and University of California at San Diego. This
project that I have looked at and heard about will advance regional and interna-
tional understanding, demonstrating to the world, as I think we must, the poten-
tial of creative cooperation and interdependence among sovereign nations.
Serious problems confront the American people at home. Yet unemployment
and the growth of the economy, as well as our national security, are directly
related to the relations with the rest of the world.
In recent weeks we witnessed, unfortunately, discouraging and tragic events
in the Middle East, on which we depend far too much for our energy needs.
These developments dramatized the urgency of moving ahead in San Diego and
throughout America with constructive action to make this Nation independent
of foreign sources of energy.
424
