[356]
June 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
So, the exercise of the veto has kept the country from having a bad law on the
statute books, because the Congress has then understood that they had to do a
better job.
In the case of housing, I think we will have that result. We will get a good
housing bill.
In the case of the appropriation bill where they increased my recommendation
by $3 billion, where they added to my proposal for a summer youth employment
program, and where they added money over and above the public service pro-
gram that I recommended, added $3 billion with a whole raft of goodies that
couldn't be justified economically, they have now done what? They have taken
the summer youth program which I recommended, they added a few minor
items, but basically they appropriated the money that I proposed.
In the case of housing, it appears they are going to more or less go along with
the recommendations that I made.
What I am saying is, our forefathers gave to a President a tool to get the Con-
gress to think, to reconsider, and to come back with something that is more
acceptable to the executive branch of the Government, a program that is a better
program for the people as a whole. And that is what we really want. We don't
want legislation that is indefensible; we want legislation that financially and
otherwise is in the best interest of all the people.
Now, there is another problem that you may have heard about. It is a little
different. It is traditional that a President recommends legislation. This is the
system, the way it works.
Usually it is recommended in what we call a State of the Union message, given
when Congress reconvenes, but it can be done on other occasions-like I am
sending up today a proposal for what we call a uranium enrichment program,
which is of vital importance for us to build facilities to supply our nuclear power
and to supply to foreign customers the necessary ingredients.
But the point that I want to make here is, in January I submitted a very com-
prehensive energy program that would, if enacted into law, get the American
people to conserve energy, which is necessary, and secondly, the program I have
proposed would stimulate domestic sources of energy, because the United States
today is very vulnerable to the foreign oil producers.
If we had an oil embargo today, we would be worse off in gasoline, in fuel oil,
in all crude oil products than we were in 1973.
How many of you can remember standing at the gas station? You couldn't
get gas unless you waited a long time. How many of you can remember the other
inconveniences that you had to go through because there was an oil embargo?
880
