[148]
March 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
It has been said that in diplomacy there are no true friendships—only tem-
porary alliances of convenience. Looking back on history and studying some of
the things that have happened over the last two centuries, I think there is some
truth to this. I think we have to recognize as well, this is not the whole picture,
and the world would be a pretty grim place if it were.
There are many in this audience who are professional diplomats, and all of
those who are, know firsthand what it means to defend your country's interests
and to negotiate on its behalf.
But as participants and supporters of the Travel Program for Foreign Diplo-
mats, you also know that human understanding, communication, and friendship
between people and nations is also a very real and a very vital force, an essential
force for peace in the world today.
In the past 12 years, this very worthwhile program has made it possible, as
has been said on many occasions, for more than 4,000 diplomats to know the
United States, to know America, our people, in a way that they never could
have through official channels.
Cooperation of countless individuals, as well as individual families in the
private sector, have supported this program and made it successful. I am de-
lighted once again to say a word of strong, strong endorsement of the program.
This year, as it carries forward again, I hope and trust that its past progress will
be multiplied. You are doing a fine job, and I thank each and every one of
you—the sponsors, the participants, as well as others.
Now, to see firsthand the beauty and the expanse of this great country, to
get to know the day-to-day joys and frustrations of an average working family
in one of our great cities, to experience the immense diversity of regional tastes
and traditions that we call America—all this is perhaps the only way to really
comprehend our ideals, our aspirations, our great strengths underlying our
national policies.
You cannot understand a nation without knowing its people. And only by
getting to know individuals can you begin to know the people as a whole. By
introducing foreign visitors to such a wide, wide range of Americans, the travel
program performs a great service to our Nation.
I hasten to add, however, that I do not see the travel program as a one-way
street. It is just as necessary for the United States diplomats to get to know the
people of their host nations and to appreciate fully the traditions and cultural
achievements of the countries where they are posted. The friendships that you
forge today will pay dividends in peaceful understanding for the years to come.
I have often said that the keystone of this Administration is openness. But
388
