[138]
March 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
Now, I did indicate, in answer to a previous question, that I am personally
analyzing, looking at all of the more recent charges of any assassination attempts
by the CIA or actual assassinations from its inception to the present.
I am personally analyzing all of these charges. I have asked my staff to bring
all of the material that is available to me personally. I have talked to Vice Presi-
dent Rockefeller about it. And I will determine within the next few days the best
course of action to make sure that the matter is handled in the most appropriate
way.
CAMBODIA
[13.] Q. Mr. President, the State Department announced today that it had
found some over $20 billion (million) in 1974 funds that had been voted for aid
to Cambodia and had not been sent, and that it was making that money avail-
able now. Is this an artifice to get around Congressional appropriations? And
are there other sources of such funds that could be found?
THE PRESIDENT. I was informed last Friday of what appears to be very sloppy
bookkeeping in the Department of Defense, and I condemn it, if it is, and I will
not condone it in the future.
I was surprised by these revelations. I don't think it was anything malicious.
I don't think it was any purposeful action. But if the money is available and was
appropriated by the Congress for the purposes set forth, it will be used according
to the law.
Q. Have similar investigations of past Vietnam appropriations been made?
THE PRESIDENT. The Inspector General, as I understand it, found out the $21
million in Cambodian military aid that was revealed last week to me and
publicly announced today. The Inspector General has a continuing respon-
sibility to find out any and all circumstances, such as the one that we are
discussing.
ACADEMIC COMMUNITY
[14.] Q. Mr. President, as Father Hesburgh put it in his speech today, you
are the first President to set foot on a first-rate campus in about 10 years. In that
context, in light of the fact that President Nixon fired Father Hesburgh from
the Civil Rights Commission, I wonder if you would elaborate on your feelings
about restoring better relations with the academic world and the task ahead of
you in that respect.
THE PRESIDENT. One of the first actions that I took, one of the first trips
that I undertook, was to go to the campus of Ohio State University. I might say
parenthetically, for a Michigan graduate to go to Ohio State is doing double
duty.
368
