[85]
February 11
Public Papers of the Presidents
ENERGY PROGRAM
[2.] Q. Mr. President, a number of Republicans as well as Democrats—
Arthur Burns, for one-have raised serious questions about your energy pro-
gram. I wonder if you, at any point, ever have any second thoughts yourself
about it.
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Cormier [Frank Cormier, Associated Press], I don't
have any second thoughts about it. I concede that in putting this program
together—and here is a copy of the bill, 167 pages—that I had to make some
very difficult decisions. All of the decisions were not easy; there were some gray
areas. But at least it is a program. And it is my strong feeling that if there is a
better program, Congress should come up with it. So far, they have come up
with no program.
So, as long as I have something that is affirmative, that I think meets the prob-
lem head on, I have no regrets about proposing it to the Congress and to the
American people. I welcome any suggestions that are constructive. I welcome
an alternative program or plan, if one can be put together by the Congress. But
I will not tolerate delay; I will not tolerate inaction. It is my judgment that the
crisis is far too serious, that the need is very obvious, and therefore, I intend to
continue trying to give some leadership for a solution to our vulnerability to
foreign oil cartels.
HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION
[3.] Q. Mr. President, without diminishing your attempt to do that, is there
an inconsistency, do you think, in your proposal to conserve energy by increas-
ing, in effect, its price, presumably for gasoline as well and, at the same time,
releasing $2 billion in highway funds today to build more highways so we can
drive more?
THE PRESIDENT. I think that is a good question, but I think there is a good
answer. The reason I released $2 billion to the States for the construction of
additional highways was because over the last 10 days or 2 weeks I have met
with a number of Governors, Democratic and Republican, and all of them,
more or less, assured me of the following:
Number one, that in most cases they had State funds that could be used right
away, and they—or most of them-have promised me that if I did release this
$2 billion for highway construction, that they could get bids and have the con-
tracted work underway within a few months.
We all know that the highway construction industry is depressed. We know
that unemployment in the highway construction industry is very high. We
222
