[90]
February 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
in the process, develop new domestic sources of oil, natural gas, and other sources
of energy. Unless we do so, our dollar outlay for petroleum will continue to
increase very dangerously.
Let me cite some figures. In 1970, our dollar outlay for foreign oil imports was
$2,700 million. Last year, 1974, our dollar outlay for foreign oil rose to $24
billion. And if no action is taken, no action, this kind of action, by 1977 our
dollar outlay could increase to $32 billion per year.
The United States, as many of you know, consumes approximately one-third
of the world's total energy output. Prompt, positive American leadership is es-
sential to any hope for the world emerging from this crisis.
My Administration, as I have indicated, has offered a comprehensive solu-
tion. If we do not act now, there will be unacceptable costs to the United States,
both domestically and internationally.
Admittedly, my proposal-and I don't want to kid you or anybody else—may
be costly. They may be inconvenient, as will any program to deal with the prob-
lem. But the costs of my energy proposals will be largely offset through the
following-in other words, as we take in revenue from the oil import levies or
revenue from the refinery tax on domestic oil or from the windfall profits tax,
those added costs will be offset in the following way:
A 1975 tax reduction of $16.5 billion to individual taxpayers through the
process of a revision of the withholding schedules for this calendar year, and a $6
billion tax reduction for business for its added energy costs. My recommendation
is to reduce the corporate tax rate from 48 to 42 percent so the individual taxpayer
would get a reduction totaling $162 billion and business would get a $6 billion
tax reduction in the manner that I have indicated.
Now, $2 billion out of the $30 or $31 billion worth of added revenues would
go back to State and local units of government because they have added energy
costs, and the formula for redistribution to them would be under the general
revenue sharing procedure.
Then I should add that there would be a $2 billion payment to the people in
the lower end of the spectrum in our economy, and they would get a direct cash
payment.
Let me just summarize, if I might, very quickly. Each of these measures was
carefully thought out, each is a part of a master plan. And each interlocks with
the other.
At the same time, by keeping the lid on all new Federal spending programs
not connected with energy, the Federal deficit would be kept to the lowest pos-
sible minimum, not as low as I would have liked under ideal circumstances, but
242
