February 28
[114]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
113
Statement Announcing Final Extension of the Program
for the Return of Vietnam Era Draft Evaders and
Military Deserters. February 28, 1975
ON January 30, 1975, I extended until March 1 the termination date of applica-
tions under the clemency program for draft evaders and military absentees who
have charges still pending against them and for those who already have been
punished for such offenses.
Based on a further review of the progress of this program, I believe that many
of those who have already been punished are only now learning they are eligible.
This is confirmed by the large number of applications—already exceeding
10,000—which continue to be filed with the Presidential Clemency Board.
Therefore, I am today granting a final extension of the termination date for
applications under the clemency program from March 1 until March 31, 1975.
NOTE: On the same day, the President signed Proc- ing the application period for the clemency
lamation 4353 and Executive Order 11842, extend-
program.
114
Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual Report of the
National Science Foundation. February 28, 1975
To the Congress of the United States:
I am pleased to submit to the Congress the Twenty-Fourth Annual Report of
the National Science Foundation, covering fiscal year 1974.
One of the clear lessons of the past few years is that our society, as well as that
of the rest of the world, is intimately tied to technology and the science that
produces it. Certainly our own approaches to problems in energy, environ-
ment, food production, and the well-being of the national economy.will include
substantial contributions from science and technology. As a Nation we are
fortunate to have an extraordinarily strong science and technology base to draw
on in dealing with these and other important national problems.
The National Science Foundation has a key role in ensuring that the Nation
maintains leadership in all fields of basic science from which our technological
advances of the future will be derived.
The National Science Foundation programs in basic research range over
305
