February 18
[97]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
97
Remarks at the Swearing In of Betty Southard Murphy as
Chairman of the National Labor Relations Board.
February 18, 1975
IT IS a great privilege and pleasure for me to have the opportunity of participat-
ing in the swearing-in ceremony for Betty Murphy as Chairman of the National
Labor Relations Board.
All of you, I am sure, are familiar with her outstanding record, fine educa-
tional background-with one exception, which I will comment on in a minute—
a fine experience as a member of the press, and an excellent record as Adminis-
trator of the Wage and Hour Division, and now an opportunity to serve in the
most important responsibility as Chairman of the National Labor Relations
Board.
I was looking over Betty Murphy's educational background, and I could not
help but notice—we from Michigan notice those things-that she was a graduate
of Ohio State University. To show my complete objectivity, she was recom-
mended for appointment, to the Senate—and confirmation-despite that educa-
tional handicap. [Laughter] We have to have a lot of fun between Ohio State
and, as Woody Hayes says, that school up north.
So, Betty, it is a great privilege and pleasure for me to participate.
I might add one thing. Where is Ann? Ann, I want to thank you for that
nice letter you wrote me.
Ann wrote me a letter telling me how she conserved energy. She went to bed at
8 o'clock and turned out the lights. And what else did you tell me, that you got
100 on an arithmetic test? I never did that well.
Judge Green, if you are ready, we can proceed.
[At this point, U.S. District Court Judge June Green administered the oath of office.]
CHAIRMAN MURPHY. Mr. President and friends and members of the press:
I am really deeply honored at this opportunity, and I want you to know that
I appreciate it, and I will do my very best to be a good Chairman.
THE PRESIDENT. We have no doubt about that.
CHAIRMAN MURPHY. Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. I want to say to all of Betty's friends, both in government and
out, Betty was appointed not because she was a woman, but because she was, in
my opinion, the most qualified and the most respected. So, we are honored to
263
