February 26
[110]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
lated—Mr. Fuqua and all of the others who made a significant contribution to
this.
I have a couple of serious comments to make. You know, as an officeholder
in the Federal Government who carries a lot of weight in Washington-in only
Washington-it gives me a great deal of pleasure tonight to say that I want to
extend to you happy birthday, to a man who carries a lot of weight anywhere,
anywhere, Jackie Gleason. [Laughter]
I did appreciate—as Jack Nicklaus and you and Bob and Elliott Kahn and
the others know—after a couple of hard weeks and a few more coming down the
road, it was great to be here and to participate. You know I can't quite get all
of the problems out of my mind, even on a delightful day like this.
You know, on the first tee Jackie Gleason asked me this question: What was
my greatest problem? I think he was referring to golf. But I had what was
really on my mind, and I said, “Congress." [Laughter]
But I enjoyed playing with the others in our fivesome; it was a great treat.
All of them are far better, infinitely more competent than myself, but I am
going to work at it. And if you are kind enough to invite Betty and me down
next year-that is a subtle way of asking for an invitation-
MR. GLEASON. You are not only invited next year but if you follow me, I
know where a martini is. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Well, somebody asked me out on the golf course how I shot
today, and I said I shot a 72. The truth was, that is before I asked for a rebate.
[Laughter]
But let me say I appreciate very much, Jackie, the opportunity to be with
all of you, to be with Jack Nicklaus and to meet Barbara Nicklaus and their
son Steve and daughter Nancy, and to meet the others who are here, and to be
with people who are superb, the best. It is the kind of a challenge that I think
we in America have to seek and work to achieve. So, thank you very much on
behalf of Betty and myself.
You know, we have had more pickets outside of Washington concerning her
than concerning me, but that is an indication of her character. And I am very
proud to introduce to all of you the First Lady, my dear wife, Betty Ford.
NOTE: The exchange of remarks began at 8 p.m. at
the Inverrary Golf and Country Club, site of the
annual golf tournament for the benefit of the Boys'
Clubs of America and other south Florida charities.
In his remarks, the President referred to Elliott
Kahn, president of Kahn Leasing Company, and
J. B. Fuqua, owner of Fuqua Industries.
301
