[255]
May 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
In this respect, we cannot ignore the fact that in
a world of what's called rising expectations, for too
many the prosperity which our nations enjoy is still
beyond their reach. In a world of true inter-
dependence, we cannot afford to let our attention be
diverted from the fact that many countries are as yet
highly dependent on our level of aid and our re-
spective trade policies.
Relations between the Western democracies and
the countries of the Third World have, as I see it,
been strained in recent years by an apparent lack
of confidence in our willingness to share their bur-
dens and to help them solve their immense problems.
While I am humble to say, but it is the experience
of my country that a new basis of confidence can be
established if we succeed in finding adequate forms
of cooperation.
We have experienced and it is our conviction that
one of the major aims of the continuing cooperation
between Western countries must be the creation of
a reestablishment of a basis of confidence in the
Third World.
In this context, the early start of a serious dialog
on raw materials has a special importance as we dis-
cussed this morning, and about which Mr. Secretary
of State spoke yesterday.
We hope that the coming Special Assembly of
the U.N. will provide a new basis for cooperation
between developing and industrialized nations. I
believe that in view of its wide responsibilities and
its tremendous economic capacity, Mr. President,
your country, the United States, can and will make
a significant contribution in this respect. And we
believe that a country like ours, the Netherlands,
can also make a contribution to world peace and
worldwide economic cooperation, albeit a more
modest one.
My government is bound to raise development aid
and transfer of real financial resources next year
to 1½ percent of net national income. It is also in
this context that we have welcomed today the
opportunity to discuss with you international prob-
lems and our respective positions on a wide range
of issues.
Meaningful ties between the United States and the
Netherlands, the recognition that our responsibili-
ties, Mr. President, are small compared with yours,
but against that background, again, expressing our
great appreciation for the hospitality and friendship
which are being shown to us in Washington, I
should now like to propose to you a toast to the
health and the well-being of the President of the
United States.
256
Remarks to the Nation Following Recovery of the
SS Mayaguez. May 15, 1975
AT MY direction, United States forces tonight boarded the American merchant
ship SS Mayaguez and landed at the Island of Koh Tang for the purpose of
rescuing the crew and the ship, which had been illegally seized by Cam-
bodian forces. They also conducted supporting strikes against nearby military
installations.
I have now received information that the vessel has been recovered intact and
the entire crew has been rescued. The forces that have successfully accomplished
this mission are still under hostile fire, but are preparing to disengage.
I wish to express my deep appreciation and that of the entire Nation to the
units and the men who participated in these operations for their valor and for
their sacrifice.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:27 a.m. from the Briefing Room at the White House. His remarks were
broadcast live on radio and television.
668
