July 3
[373]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
salmon have reappeared in the Connecticut and Hudson Rivers. They cough a
lot, but they have reappeared.
Cooperation and prudent self-interest has also made for other solid advances.
Nearly 80 percent of all major stationary sources of air pollution—utility plants,
factories, large buildings—are now complying with emission regulations or are
meeting an abatement schedule.
The result of these and other clean air regulations is very apparent. The
citizens of many, many great cities have already benefited from the life-giving
improvement in the purity of their air. There is much more to be done, but let
us not be indifferent to what already has been accomplished.
As some of you may know, I have always retained a very special interest in
sports activity. I like to swim, to golf, to ski, to play tennis, to take walks in the
atmosphere that renews and returns perspective. I cherish the out-of-doors, and
I stand with those who fight to preserve what is best in our environment.
But as President, I can never lose sight of another insistent aspect of our en-
vironment—the economic needs of the American people. Your security, your
well-being must enter into every decision I make—and it does.
I pursue the goal of clean air and pure water, but I must also pursue the ob-
jective of maximum jobs and continued economic progress. Unemployment is
as real and as sickening a blight as any pollutant that threatens the Nation.
If accomplishing every worthy environmental objective would slow down
our effort to regain energy independence and a stronger economy, then of
necessity I must weigh all factors involved. My decision must reflect the needs
of the future but also the demands of the present. And I will do my very best
to neglect neither.
The building we dedicate today is imposing proof of our commitment to
tomorrow. Within its walls and within the laboratory of other such facilities,
problems will be defined and solutions will be found.
Working together, we Americans have always been able to find the difficult
answers. Here in Cincinnati I know that you will find more than your share.
Ours is a bountiful land. Let us resolve to live in it, at one with man, with
nature, and with God.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:10 p.m. at the Cen-
ter, which was located on the campus of the Univer-
sity of Cincinnati.
In his opening remarks, the President referred to
Russell E. Train, Administrator of the Environmen-
tal Protection Agency, Dr. Warren Bennis, presi-
dent of the University of Cincinnati, and Russell W.
Peterson, Chairman of the Council on Environmen-
tal Quality.
913
