April 3
[166]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
THE PRESIDENT. It was a unilateral decision by President Thieu to order a
withdrawal from the broad, exposed areas that were under the control of the
South Vietnamese military.
Miss Thomas [Helen Thomas, United Press International].
Q. Mr. President, what is your response to the South Vietnamese Ambassador
to Washington's statement that we had not lived up to the Paris peace accords
and that the Communists are safer allies?
THE PRESIDENT. I won't comment on his statement. I will say this: that the
North Vietnamese repeatedly and in massive efforts violated the Paris peace
accords. They sent North Vietnamese regular forces into South Vietnam in mas-
sive numbers—I think around 150,000 to 175,000 well-trained North Vietnamese
regular forces—in violation of the Paris peace accords, moved into South Viet-
nam. We have objected to that violation.
I still believe that the United States, in this case and in other cases, is a reliable
ally. And although I am saddened by the events that we have read about and
seen, it is a tragedy unbelievable in its ramifications.
I must say that I am frustrated by the action of the Congress in not responding
to some of the requests both for economic and humanitarian and military assist-
ance in South Vietnam. And I am frustrated by the limitations that were placed
on the Chief Executive over the last 2 years.
But let me add very strongly: I am convinced that this country is going to
continue its leadership. We will stand by our allies, and I specifically warn any
adversaries they should not, under any circumstances, feel that the tragedy of
Vietnam is an indication that the American people have lost their will or their
desire to stand up for freedom anyplace in the world.
Q. Well, Mr. President, can you explain why President Thieu, with our close
military ties as allies, did not tell you what he was going to do in terms of the
retreat?
THE PRESIDENT. I think the only answer to that can come from President
Thieu.
Q. Mr. Ford, recently you said the fall of Cambodia could threaten the na-
tional security of this country. Now, considering the probable fall of South Viet-
nam to Communist forces, do you feel that will threaten our national security,
and if so, how?
THE PRESIDENT. At the moment, I do not anticipate the fall of South Vietnam,
and I greatly respect and admire the tremendous fight that the Government and
the people of Cambodia are putting up against the insurgents who are trying to
take over Cambodia.
413
