[397]
July 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
environment. So, I cannot honestly say that my experiences were the same as
that of those who are struggling today in Chicago and elsewhere in an effort to
make it. But I do say that my own personal experience leads me to care about
and to identify with every upward-bound individual in this great Nation.
I defy anyone to put down the greatest fraternity of them all—the college
graduates who learned something about life by dirtying their hands.
I am deeply concerned about the unemployment of this recession and those
now employed beneath the level of their capacities. A nation that deprives any-
one of equal opportunity is itself deprived. A nation that cannot create the con-
ditions for human dignity for all is itself lacking a measure of humanity and
dignity.
The dignity of the individual is based ultimately on a sense of pride. It does
not come from government programs that take over the individual's life and
reduce the person to a case file and a claim number. Real aid to the individual
is aid that helps the individual to help himself or herself. Federal assistance that
helps people achieve higher education and higher qualification is fully justified,
because that is the aim and that is the objective.
I am told that one of your graduates here today receiving a degree in educa-
tion is a 45-year-old woman who worked as a teacher's aide. She aspired to
teach. With nine children-one severely handicapped-it was obviously not
easy. But her perseverance is typical of this entire graduating class. So is the
spirit of your Vietnam veterans and others who caught up to win degrees today.
The Federal Government can provide financial aid to education, but it cannot
give individuals the determination that you have displayed in earning your
degrees.
As President, I am deeply concerned about the attitude of government toward
individuals. But I am also concerned about the attitude of individuals toward
the national community and toward themselves in terms of personal self-respect.
I cannot and I do not say that we are all in the same boat. Some people,
unfortunately, are outside the boat, so to speak, struggling in stormy waters.
We, the fortunate, are in the boat and can throw out—for illustrative purposes,
I say a life preserver. We can and we will help. But those in the water must
not just hang on indefinitely to their life preservers, but must swim toward
rescue.
Real assistance is to help people to help themselves. We can't do everything
for everybody, but there is room for all who try to make it. The only soul really
lost is the one who gives up without trying.
Many of the problems, for example, of cities remain unsolved. And I should
980
