February 28
[116]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
off-year election. Our Republicans did not go to the polls. Our organization was
not as effective. And we had some problems. The economy was beginning to
deteriorate, and we had other difficulties that were very adverse to the Repub-
lican candidates all across the country.
We are going to have a good program in our platform in 1976. It will be based
on the concepts of the free enterprise system, continuation of a strong national
security program, and a maximum effort to improve and make wholesome and
healthy our economy.
Now, if we do that—and I believe we will achieve those results—all of you in
this organization—and you are the young, vigorous people who can be effec-
tive—can help us tremendously, because you will be out there working at the
grassroots level. And I say to you that our party can and will challenge those
who are in the Democratic Party who do not agree with what we are trying to do.
A long time ago I started in the Young Republicans. I was proud of my affilia-
tion then. I am proud of my dedication to the Republican Party today. And I
think you, as you move in the political mainstream, can also achieve great suc-
cess, perhaps for yourself, perhaps for the party, but more importantly for the
country.
Now, we do have some problems. We do not control the Congress of the
United States. We did very badly in the last elections; only 28 percent, as I recall,
actually got out and participated—or 38 percent, I am sorry—in the last election.
It is a pretty dismal performance. I don't know whether we worked hard
enough, I don't know whether we failed with our economic problems or the
other difficulties that beset us, but 1976 is going to be a different year.
It is my honest judgment that we are going to have great progress in the fur-
ther pursuit of peace. We are going to have a great improvement in our econ-
omy. We are going to be fielding strong candidates for the House as well as for
the Senate.
And if we have the kind of results that I anticipate, then we can look forward
to great success in 1976 and a Republican President for the next 4 years and,
hopefully, a Republican Congress come January 1977.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:34 p.m. in the East Room at the White House.
309
