April 21
[204]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
FOREIGN POLICY
[3.] MR. CRONKITE. Speaking of your state of the world address, there was
speculation around just before that address that you were going to use it to put
your own stamp on foreign policy. I think the phrase was "to get out from under
the shadow" of Secretary Henry Kissinger. Do you feel you did that with that
speech, or was that ever your intention?
THE PRESIDENT. It wasn't done to show any particular purpose, other than
the problems we had. Vietnam, of course, was number one on the agenda. We
did want to indicate that, and I must say we-it means the Administration—
that we were strengthening NATO. We had to solve the problem of the dispute
between Greece and Turkey over Cyprus.
It was sort of a world look, and I don't think it was necessary for me to put
my own imprint. I think it is more important to deal with reality rather than
to try and go off on my own. The problems have to be solved, and I don't care
who has the label for it.
MR. SEVAREID. Mr. President, we all get the impression, and have since you
have been in office, that you get your foreign policy advice exclusively from
Henry Kissinger. If that isn't so, who else do you listen to?
The President. That is a good question, and I would like to answer it quite
frankly.
The National Security Council meets on the major decisions that I have to
make—SALT, MBFR, et cetera. I get the recommendations from the National
Security Council. It includes Secretary Kissinger, Secretary Schlesinger, the head
of the CIA, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. The major decisions come
to me in option papers from the National Security Council.
Now, I meet daily with Secretary Kissinger for about an hour, because I think
it is important for me to be brought up day by day on what the circumstances are
in the various areas where we have potential decisionmaking on the agenda. But
the actual information that is involved in a major decision comes through the
National Security Council.
MR. SEVAREID. Suppose there is a position paper or a policy recommendation
from somebody in the National Security Council to which the Secretary is
opposed? Could it get to you? Could it get past him to you?
THE PRESIDENT. Oh, yes. Surely, no question about that. As a matter of fact, in
our discussions in the National Security Council, particularly when we were pre-
paring for SALT II negotiations, there were some options proposed by one
individual or others.
547
