April 28
[220]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
are able to offer a wider variety of lending services and pay more competitive
interest rates to savers.
In the coming weeks, I will send to the Congress a comprehensive transpor-
tation program designed to achieve maximum reform of Federal regulations
governing our railroads, airlines, and trucking firms.
The first of these bills will permit railroads to begin to adjust their rates within
specified limits, without ICC interference. The legislation will improve proce-
dures for mergers and for abandonments. The increased competition brought
about by this legislation will lower costs for consumers and save approximately
70,000 barrels of oil each day. Legislation proposing corresponding reform meas-
ures for trucking and airline regulation will follow shortly.
Another element of our program is pending legislation in the Congress which
would end the so-called fair trade laws. Federal law today now permits States to
allow manufacturers to dictate the price of their product and drives up the cost
on such items as books, cosmetics, shoes, hardware. These Depression-era laws,
which cost consumers an estimated $2 billion a year, should be laid to rest along
with the NRA [National Recovery Administration] Blue Eagle of the same
period.
In addition, I will propose changes in other laws which restrain competition
and deny buyers substantial savings. The Robinson-Patman Act is a leading
example of such laws. It discourages both large and small firms from cutting
prices, and it also makes it harder for them to expand into new markets and to
pass on to customers the cost-savings on large orders.
Finally, there are a number of related actions which will improve our under-
standing of government regulation and facilitate future changes. The problem
of Government-imposed reporting requirements has become so acute that your
Government has had to create a Commission on Federal Paperwork. Yes, that is
right. There is a committee, a board, an agency, or a commission in Washington
for just about everything, including trying to cut down the onerous filling-out
of Federal forms, which last June numbered exactly 5,146 separate types. That's
many too many.
The Commission will represent the Administration, the Congress, and the
public, and I intend to see that its very wide powers are used effectively to cut
down the unnecessary burden on our American free enterprise system.
I will be convening very shortly an unprecedented meeting of all of the
Commissioners of the ten major independent regulatory agencies. Joining them
will be key Members of the Congress and the Administration. Together, we
will discuss the imperative need to foster greater competition in the public interest
603
