[25]
January 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
than it was back in 1932, 1933, and 1934. I just was going to comment until
somebody said something that really undercut what I was going to say.
I played football back-so far back that it was back when the ball was round,
and this gentleman over here said, “You should have seen it back in 1906.”
[Laughter]
But I am also deeply grateful for the opportunity to be here, because as a
former assistant football coach who left the profession, probably wisely, let me
assure you that I do know your concerns, your problems. To some extent-
not to the extent that most of you have-I have lived them.
I will never forget back at the time in the fall or after the fall of 1940 at Yale,
we had had a very bad season. I went to a movie theater that night with our
great head coach, Ducky Pond, and the movie that night just happened to be
that film classic, “King Kong."
You can never forget—I never did—that final scene. King Kong is standing on
top of the Empire State Building, and men are shouting at him, women scream-
ing at him, the police are shooting at him, even airplanes are firing machineguns
at him.
I was very impressed. I leaned over to Ducky, who was sitting next to me in
the theater, and whispered, "When was the last time you ever saw anything like
that?" Ducky whispered back, "Tuesday. I had a meeting with the alumni
association." [Laughter]
As a resident of Washington, the District of Columbia, on at least a temporary
basis, I want you to know what a real thrill it is to have all of you here. Washing-
ton is a real football town, and you can't imagine the excitement seeing John
McKay fly in over the Potomac, Ara Parseghian drive in over the Potomac, and
Bear Bryant walk in over the Potomac. [Laughter] ³
3
You know, sometimes I wonder why we don't talk more about the history
of this sport that all of us have had some connection and relationship with.
Football is a very old and very honorable game. It was played by the ancient
Chinese, the Greeks, and the Romans. In fact, many, many ancient peoples
played a form of football just to keep warm in the winter. And it still works. I
saw Woody Hayes * after the Rose Bowl game-boy, was he steamed! [Laugh-
ter] No, really, Woody, I am only kidding.
You know where my loyalties are. But I firmly believe after that New Year's
Day, two of the finest football teams in America today were involved in the
3 Football coaches John McKay of the University of Southern California, Ara Parseghian of the University
of Notre Dame, and Paul W. Bryant of the University of Alabama.
* Woodrow W. Hayes of Ohio State University.
28
