[36]
January 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
TAX REBATES
[29.] Q. Mr. President, I would like to ask you, please, in view of the lack
of confidence which has been expressed in the economy to date, what makes
you think that your proposal for tax rebates would provide any real stimulus
to buying powers so the public would spend its way out of a recession? What
makes you
think that it won't all be eaten up in higher fuel taxes and the rest
will be put in the bank for lack of public confidence?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the $12 billion tax rebate predicated on 1974 income
taxes, if the Congress acts promptly so we can make the first payment in May,
will provide a stimulant; and the tax refunds or tax reductions that will be pred-
icated on the energy package will also, in my opinion, be helpful as far as the
economy is concerned.
Now, I can't tell you how people are going to either spend or save the money
that they will get in the rebate, but if they spend it, that is good. If they save it,
that might be helpful, too, because it will go into a bank or a savings and loan,
and it will provide funds for the housing market, for the sale of automobiles.
In either case, I think there will be benefits and advantages to the rebate.
MR. CORMIER. Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much. It is nice to be here. We will do it
more often now.
NOTE: President Ford's sixth news conference began Office Building. It was broadcast live on radio and
at 2:04 p.m. in Room 450 of the Old Executive
television.
37
Remarks Upon Signing Instruments of Ratification of the Geneva
Protocol of 1925 and the Biological Weapons Convention.
January 22, 1975
Members of the Congress, Mr. Secretary, distinguished guests:
This is a very auspicious occasion. I am signing today the instruments of
ratification of two important treaties that limit arms and contribute to lessening
the horror of war.
The first, the Geneva Protocol, prohibits the use in war of lethal and incapac-
itating chemical and bacteriological weapons. Its ratification completes the
process, I should say, which began nearly 50 years ago in 1925, when the United
States proposed and signed the protocol.
72
