[28]
January 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
businesses would be in the form of a liberalized investment tax credit increasing
the rate to 12 percent for all businesses.
This tax cut does not include the more fundamental reforms needed in our
tax system. But it points us in the right direction-allowing taxpayers rather
than the Government to spend their pay.
Cutting taxes now is essential if we are to turn the economy around. A tax cut
offers the best hope of creating more jobs. Unfortunately, it will increase the size
of the budget deficit. Therefore, it is more important than ever that we take steps
to control the growth of Federal expenditures.
Part of our trouble is that we have been self-indulgent. For decades, we have
been voting ever-increasing levels of Government benefits, and now the bill has
come due. We have been adding so many new programs that the size and the
growth of the Federal budget has taken on a life of its own.
One characteristic of these programs is that their cost increases automatically
every year because the number of people eligible for most of the benefits increases
every year. When these programs are enacted, there is no dollar amount set. No
one knows what they will cost. All we know is that whatever they cost last year,
they will cost more next year.
It is a question of simple arithmetic. Unless we check the excessive growth of
Federal expenditures or impose on ourselves matching increases in taxes, we
will continue to run huge inflationary deficits in the Federal budget.
If we project the current built-in momentum of Federal spending through
the next 15 years, State, Federal, and local government expenditures could easily
comprise half of our gross national product. This compares with less than a
third in 1975.
I have just concluded the process of preparing the budget submissions for
fiscal year 1976. In that budget, I will propose legislation to restrain the growth
of a number of existing programs. I have also concluded that no new spending
programs can be initiated this year, except for energy. Further, I will not hesitate
to veto any new spending programs adopted by the Congress.
As an additional step toward putting the Federal Government's house in order,
I recommend a 5-percent limit on Federal pay increases in 1975. In all Govern-
ment programs tied to the Consumer Price Index-including social security, civil
service and military retirement pay, and food stamps-I also propose a 1-year
maximum increase of 5 percent.
None of these recommended ceiling limitations, over which Congress has final
authority, are easy to propose, because in most cases they involve anticipated pay-
ments to many, many deserving people. Nonetheless, it must be done. I must
38
