January 23
[45]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
45
Interview With John Chancellor and Tom Brokaw of NBC News.
January 23, 1975
ENERGY AND ECONOMIC PROGRAMS
MR. CHANCELLOR. [1.] Mr. President, we have had a request in for an inter-
view for some time, and you have chosen tonight for it. And I must say, on
Tom's behalf and mine, we are terribly pleased you picked tonight, because it
was quite a news day here at the White House. You were about as busy as you
could have been here.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we were talking, John, and we had a regular schedule
of things that in itself was a busy day, and then we had a few little added items
that-well, I would rather be busy than sitting around not preoccupied, let me
put it that way.
MR. CHANCELLOR. Well, you were busy enough today, and I would like to
begin with that. By the stroke of a pen, sir, this afternoon you issued a proclama-
tion that is going to mean people are going to have to pay more for gas. Can we
get into that? How much more are we going to pay for gas?
The President. Well, under the proclamation that I signed today, which I
hope is an interim administrative action, there will be some additional payments
extracted from foreign oil of $1 a barrel, and that in and of itself will probably
add 2 cents to 3 cents to a gallon of gasoline.
If the Congress acts on the total package, which I hope they will do in a very
short period of time, then we will be able to not only collect the necessary funds
but we will be able to pay it back. The total cost, when the program gets into
complete operation, will probably mean gasoline prices would increase 8 to 10
cents a gallon.
MR. CHANCELLOR. Maybe a little more?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, it is a little hard to tell, but the first increment of $1
that will be imposed on February 1—it won't go on automatically and imme-
diately, because there are stocks that are in supply, and the total impact on the
first dollar won't come for about 55 days-but that will mean 2 to 3 cents increase
in the price of gasoline, and as it goes up to $2, it will go up correspondingly at
the filling station.¹
¹ At his news briefing on January 24, 1975, Press Secretary Ron Nessen stated: "When [the President]
said 3 cents, he meant that when the full $3 increase in the import fees gets on, it would be 3 cents a gallon."
91
