April 4
[169]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
Now, in the expectation that the economy will show improvement before
the year is out, I will ask the Congress that these extended programs have a
built-in procedure, which is vitally important to reduce or to terminate the
program when the unemployment rate decreases to a specified level. This trig-
gering device is absolutely important if we are to get rid of a program that
was necessary during a recession but is unneeded when the economy has
recovered. This procedure will concentrate the limited resources in those areas
experiencing the greatest unemployment.
Speaking of unemployment, unemployment and the growth of our economy
are directly related with our international relations.
In recent weeks we have experienced serious setbacks in our quest for
peace in the Middle East and more recently, and more tragically, in South-
east Asia. Even as I speak this evening, the dimensions of the human catas-
trophe in Southeast Asia increase. I, I am sure, like you, have frankly been
moved and troubled by the developments in South Vietnam and Cambodia.
I believe all Americans, regardless of how they may have viewed the situation
in years past, are shocked and saddened.
I am especially distressed, as I am sure you are, by the death of so many
little children, for example, in the crash of the United States Air Force mercy
flight. And I wish to convey my heartfelt condolences to the prospective foster
parents and to all relatives and friends of the children and the dedicated
American military and civilian men and women who died in that crash.
Many of the children were orphans on their way to new homes and to a new
life in the United States. But let me assure you that our mission of mercy is
going to continue, the survivors and other orphans will be flown to this great
country. Out of this tragedy must come new hope for the living, and I am very,
very confident Americans will join to help these Vietnamese orphans in the
best and the very fastest way. I can assure you that we are taking all possible
humanitarian measures to relieve the innocent civilian refugees in South Viet-
nam. We are also providing for the safety of all Americans in the battle
zone.
When I have the privilege of addressing the Congress upon its return from
the Easter recess, I will ask the Congress, in a joint session, for a firm American
commitment to provide humanitarian aid to the helpless civilian refugees.
There is a special point I wish to emphasize tonight. Let no adversary or
potential enemies of the United States imagine that America can be safely
challenged, and just as importantly, let no allies or friends fear that our
commitments will not be honored.
437
