[200]
April 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
We become, Mr. President, even more dismayed
when the current posture of America towards Africa
is set against the background of historical perform-
ance in the late fifties and early sixties.
We cannot but recall that America did not wait
for and march in step with the colonial powers, but
rather boldly, boldly marched ahead with the
colonial peoples in their struggles to fulfill their
aspirations; an America undaunted by the strong
forces of reaction against the wind of change,
whose nationals helped teach the colonial settlers
about the evils of racial discrimination; an America
whose Assistant Secretary for African Affairs, Soapy
Williams,ยน could be slapped in the face by a white
reactionary on our soil and yet, undaunted, still
smile, still stand by American principles of free-
dom, justice, and national independence based on
majority rule.
Yes, the reactionaries hated Americans for spoiling
the natives as they would say-for helping to
dismantle colonialism.
Now, we ask and wonder, what has happened
throughout America? Have the principles changed?
The aspirations of the oppressed have not changed,
have not changed at all. In desperation, their anger
has exploded their patience. Their resolve to fight, if
peaceful negotiations are impossible, is borne out by
history.
So, their struggle has now received the baptism
of fire; victories in Mozambique and Angola have
given them added inspiration. Africa has no rea-
son-no reason at all-not to support the liberation
movements.
Can America still end only with declarations of
support for the principles of freedom and racial
justice? This, I submit, Mr. President, would not be
enough.
Southern Africa is poised for a dangerous armed
conflict. Peace is at stake. The conflict with dis-
astrous consequences can be averted, but I submit.
again, Mr. President, there is not much time.
Urgent action is required.
At this time, America cannot realistically wait and
see what administering powers will do or to pledge
to support their efforts when none are in plan.
America must heed the call of the oppressed.
America, once an apostle in decolonization, must
not be a mere disciple of those which promise but
never perform and thus give strength to evils of
colonialism and apartheid.
If we want peace, we must end the era of inertia
in Rhodesia and in Namibia and vigorously work
for ending apartheid. America must now be in the
vanguard of democratic revolution in southern
Africa. This is not the first time we make this
appeal. It is Africa's constant plea.
ยน G. Mennen Williams, Assistant Secretary of State
for African Affairs 1961-66.
Now, Africa has taken an unequivocal stand on
decolonization. We do not want to fight a war to
win freedom and full national independence in
southern Africa. Africa wants to achieve these ob-
jectives by peaceful means-that is, through
negotiations.
Our declaration to give high priority to peaceful
methods to resolve the current crisis is a conscious
decision-a conscious decision. We feel it to be our
moral duty to avoid bloodshed where we can.
We are determined to fulfill this obligation but,
Mr. President, not at any price-not at any price;
not at the price of freedom and justice. There we
say no. No.
Africa has made it clear that if the road to
peaceful change is closed by the stone walls of racial
bigotry and the force of arms by minority regimes,
then we are equally duty-bound to take the in-
escapable alternative.
The oppressed people have a right to answer force
with force, and Africa and all her friends in the
world will support them.
Liberation movements fought fascist Portugal.
We supported them. They won, they won. Now we
must turn to Rhodesia and Namibia.
Can America stand and be counted in imple-
menting the Dar es Salaam strategy adopted by
Africa? In Dar es Salaam early this month, Mr.
President, Africa reaffirmed its commitment, its
commitment to a peaceful solution to the crisis in
southern Africa as a first priority.
Our strategy opens even new doors to peaceful
change, if those caught up in the crisis seek an
honorable exit. Here is a chance in a century to
achieve peace based on human equality and human
dignity without further violence.
We call upon America to support our efforts in
achieving majority rule in Rhodesia and Namibia
immediately and the ending of apartheid in South
Africa. If we are committed to peace, then let us
join hands in building peace by removing factors
underlying the current crisis.
If the oppressed peoples fail to achieve these
noble ends by peaceful means, we call upon Amer-
ica not to give any support to the oppressors. Even
now we call upon America to desist from direct
and indirect support to minority regimes, for this
puts America in direct conflict with the interests of
Africa; that is, peace deeply rooted, deeply rooted in
human dignity and equality and freedom without
discrimination.
We have recently demonstrated, Mr. President,
our readiness to make peaceful change possible in
Mozambique and Angola. We are equally com-
mitted to assist the oppressed if they should con-
vince us that the road to peaceful change is closed
and armed struggle is the only alternative.
The rebels in Rhodesia, assisted by South African
troops, have committed some of the worst atrocities
536
