February 4
[72]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
WHITE HOUSE BUDGET
[19.] Q. Mr. President, you have asked the country to sacrifice to help us
out in this time of trouble, but our own budget shows that the Executive Office
of the President has outlays of 65 percent more in fiscal year 1975 over fiscal year
1974. Furthermore, we look at the kind of habits in the Administration: Not
many days ago, Secretary Kissinger had a speech in Los Angeles, and to make
one speech, he takes two planes-two very large planes—and spends tens of
thousands of dollars of the taxpayers' money. Don't you think it is time for the
White House to tighten its belt and other members of the Administration to
do the same thing?
THE PRESIDENT. I can assure you, since I took over, that we have thoroughly
looked into the personnel of the White House, and if my memory is correct, we
have cut back about 10 percent in personnel. The increases that have come—
again, my memory suggests—is that the White House is now being charged
rent by GSA just as GSA charges every other Federal department for federally
owned office buildings that are occupied by a department.
And there has been an increase in compensation for Federal employees, which
I happen to oppose and asked to be deferred. So, when you add up the items
that I have indicated, plus the 10-percent reduction in personnel, at least as far
as we are concerned, it is my judgment that we have been cutting back rather
than adding to.
Now, in the case of Secretary Kissinger, Secretary Kissinger is a very impor-
tant person in this Government at this time, and it would be tragic if anything
happened to him as a result of not taking necessary precautions. And I, for one,
do not want any lack of precaution to result in anything that would hurt, in my
opinion, the carrying out of our foreign policy, which is a success.
I happen to think the protection of his life, which is important to the foreign
policy of this country, is worth the expenditure that you indicated.
Q. As a followup, Mr. President, you say that you have to pay rent now on
the White House. What happens if you cannot pay your bills? Do they throw
you out? [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Well, you ask Mr. Sampson. I think they will take it out of
our appropriation bill.
REPORTER. Thank you, Mr. President.
NOTE: President Ford's seventh news conference be-
gan at 2:35 p.m. in the Grand Ballroom at the
Hyatt Regency Hotel, Atlanta, Ga. It was broadcast
live on radio.
In his closing remarks, the President referred
to Arthur F. Sampson, Administrator of General
Services.
195
