[64]
February 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
constructive, and responsible fashion. They are designed to move the Nation
toward economic health and stability. They meet human needs. They provide
for the strong defense essential to our national security and to our continuing
efforts to maintain world peace.
Looking beyond the bicentennial, toward the year 2000, the practical limits
to the growth of the Federal Government's role in our society become increas-
ingly clear. The tremendous growth of our domestic assistance programs in
recent years has, on the whole, been commendable. Much of the burden of
aiding the elderly and the needy has been shifted from private individuals and
institutions to society as a whole, as the Federal Government's income transfer
programs have expanded their coverage.
These programs cannot, however, continue to expand at the rates they have
experienced over the past two decades. Spending by all levels of government now
makes up a third of our national output. Were the growth of domestic assist-
ance programs to continue for the next two decades at the same rates as in the
past 20 years, total government spending would grow to more than half of our
national output. We cannot permit this to occur. Taxation of individuals and
businesses to pay for such expansion would simply become insupportably heavy.
This is not a matter of conservative or liberal ideology. It is hard fact, easily
demonstrated by simple extrapolation. We must begin to limit the rate of growth
of our budgetary commitments in the domestic assistance area to sustainable
levels.
The growth of these domestic assistance programs has taken place in a largely
unplanned, piecemeal fashion. This has resulted in too many overlapping pro-
grams, lack of coordination, and inequities. Some of the less needy now receive
a disproportionate share of Federal benefits, while some who are more needy
receive less. We must redouble the efforts of the past five years to rationalize
and streamline these programs. This means working toward a stable and inte-
grated system of programs that reflects the conscience of a compassionate society
but avoids a growing preponderance of the public sector over the private. It
also means decentralizing Government operations and developing a closer
partnership among the Federal Government, State and local governments, and
the individual private citizen.
The Congress will approach this budget in a new way, with new legislative
machinery and procedures. I pledge to work in a spirit of cooperation with the
Congress to make this effort a success. The tasks before us provide difficult tests:
to meet immediate economic problems; to relate our limited Federal resources
more clearly to current national priorities; and to develop long-term strategies
162
