January 16
[31]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
There is, of course, the serious economic impact of trade sanctions to consider,
particularly in the case of Japan, which in 1973 shipped $235 million in fishery
products, 36 percent (in dollar value) of its fishery exports, to the United States.
Domestically, withdrawal of Japanese imports, amounting to about 11 percent
of our supplies, would result in higher prices for fish products.
Because of the important economic and political ramifications of such sanc-
tions, they should be imposed only after all reasonable alternatives for the achieve-
ment of the conservation objective have proven ineffective. With the progress
made at this year's IWC meeting, the current situation does not warrant such
stringent measures and, therefore, I am taking no action now.
There is, of course, the possibility that subsequent action by Japan or the
USSR may require a reassessment. In this event I will expect the Secretary of
Commerce to submit such reports and recommendations as he finds warranted.
The Secretary's present certification, prepared by the National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration, recommends the course of action I have decided on.
GERALD R. FORD
The White House,
January 16, 1975.
31
Message to the Congress Transmitting First Quarterly
Report of the Council on Wage and Price Stability.
January 16, 1975
To the Congress of the United States:
In accordance with section 5 of the Council on Wage and Price Stability Act,
as amended, I am hereby transmitting to the Congress the first quarterly report
of the Council on Wage and Price Stability. This report covers the third calendar
quarter of 1974. In addition, it covers the months of May and June, the period
not covered by the final quarterly report of the Economic Stabilization Program.
Inflation continued to be a very serious problem during the period covered by
this report. The Council on Wage and Price Stability has been actively using its
powers to monitor wage and price increases, conduct public hearings and investi-
gate those Government programs and policies that raise costs and prices without
creating corresponding social benefits. In so doing, it is carrying out the mandate
of the Congress to combat inflation without resorting to wage and price controls.
49
