[138]
March 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
1
THE PRESIDENT. It is a serious matter, and I will decide within the next few
days the best course of action for the executive branch to take on these
allegations.
PROGRAMS FOR THE POOR
[5.] Q. Mr. President, earlier here today a number of young people pro-
tested it was inappropriate for you to receive an honorary Notre Dame degree
because they considered your lack of sensitivity to the poor and your decision to
re-fund the war in Indochina. What would be your response to that?
The President. I think you will find that the budget that I submitted in Jan-
uary of this year was a very sound budget. It was not an austere budget. It did
provide substantially for the poor in many respects. It provided for an expanded
Community Development Act of $1,600 million more for next year than for the
current fiscal year. It did provide $202 million for the Older American Act,
which is a substantial increase in this area over the last several years.
We have proposed, and we will support, a responsible program to help the
poor in this country. And I think the budget that I submitted in January does
just that.
FOREIGN ASSISTANCE
[6.] Q. Mr. President, in your speech here at Notre Dame earlier today, you
made a strong pitch for continued foreign aid despite the recession. And I was
surprised that you failed to mention your proposal for more military aid to
Cambodia and South Vietnam. Now, I know military aid to Southeast Asia has
been unpopular on many college campuses, and I wonder if your failure to men-
tion that was because you feared you might be booed or there might be a walk-
out by students if you professed your policy on that issue?
THE PRESIDENT. The speech that I made this morning on the Notre Dame
campus was aimed at the broad concept that the United States must participate
in world affairs, that this was one world in which we all live. I pointed out I had
always supported, as a Member of Congress, the mutual security and the foreign
aid programs, both economic, point 4, Food for Peace, as well as the military
assistance program.
It seemed to me that we needed a restatement of the basic reason why foreign
aid is important, that we live in an interdependent world and that the United
States has to make its full contribution in that regard.
The details can be discussed, the details can be argued, but we needed a
restatement, a strong restatement of the broad, general reasons why this country
has to be a part of the one world concept, working with our allies, trying to
364
