[71]
February 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
posals that I have submitted to the Congress, Americans would be forced to make
some hard decisions on how to reduce their use of gasoline to the minimum;
under rationing, Americans would be concerned with the ways that they
could obtain more gasoline. And in short, rationing would not be a quick solu-
tion or even an easy solution or, in my judgment, even a fair solution.
It would restrict the basic freedom that we think is important in America, the
basic freedom of movement in this country, while failing to come to grips with
the very diverse needs of Americans for transportation.
Even if it were workable-which I do not think it is-gasoline rationing
would not go to the heart of the problem that we face as a country. And the
heart of that problem is reducing total oil consumption. Gasoline is only about
40 percent of a barrel of crude oil. The gasoline rationing advocates offer no
solution, to my knowledge, on how to save on the other 60 percent of that barrel
of crude oil.
Our current national situation on energy is very much like having a disease.
If we do not accept painful treatment now, leading to a cure, the disease will
only get worse. Like a disease, the energy problem will not spontaneously disap-
pear; neither will it be cured by some Congressional aspirin. We need a compre-
hensive, solid, constructive solution if we are going to end our vulnerability to
foreign oil imports.
Our twin economic problems of recession and inflation are part of that disease
which must also be treated swiftly and firmly. The stimulant of a tax rebate
to reduce the impact of recession will not be enough without other measures.
That is why the $16 billion tax rebate that I have proposed is tied into a com-
prehensive plan that will put $12 billion into the pockets of individual Ameri-
cans. It will provide a $4 billion tax incentive to business and to agriculture to
expand productivity and to create more jobs.
The importance of making this rebate available to business can be seen in this
simple statistic. Businessmen here know precisely what I am talking about. It
takes $12,000 of equipment and plant to support every job. Some jobs require a
greater investment. We have to encourage investment if plant capacity is to
expand and if jobs are to be created, if our economy is to grow and prosper in
the months and years ahead.
This audience, I have observed, is very sensitive to the problems of business
and the problems of the jobseeker, and I think you know very well that the fate
of both are closely intertwined.
At the same time, you also realize that middle-income Americans who carry
the tax burden of the Nation must not be penalized for their success. Disad-
182
