May 23
[276]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
reprocess this material, because there is a question of prestige with so many
governments involved.
THE PRESIDENT. We are concerned about the proliferation of nuclear capa-
bility. We are trying to upgrade the safeguards when the powerplants are sold
or made available. We think there has to be continuous consultation on how
we can do it technically and how we can do it diplomatically.
We are going to maximize our effort, because if the number of nations hav-
ing nuclear armaments increases significantly, the risk to the world increases, it
multiplies. So, this Administration will do anything technically, diplomatically,
or otherwise to avert the danger that you are talking about.
THE MIDDLE EAST
[7.] MR. MACNEIL. Mr. President, the oil and energy race is intimately tied
up, of course, with the Middle East. You and Secretary Kissinger have said
recently that your reassessment of policy in this most explosive and dangerous
which has been going on for 2 months, is not yet complete. It is a little
difficult to understand how you could have spent 2 months and are, as you say,
meeting President Sadat next week with no new policy.
area,
THE PRESIDENT. I think my meeting with President Sadat is a very under-
standable part of the process. He, of course, has a deep interest and concern in
a permanent, peaceful solution in the Middle East. I want to get firsthand from
him his analysis, his recommendations. Of course, that meeting will be followed
by one with Prime Minister Rabin here on June 11, where I will have the same
intimate relationship, where he can give me his analysis and his recommenda-
tions. And sometime shortly thereafter we will lay out what we think is the
best solution.
MR. DE MEDICI. Mr. President, it has been some time since there was an au-
thoritative statement of United States policy vis-a-vis the Middle East with
reference to U.N. Resolution 242, which calls for secure boundaries and with-
drawal from occupied territories. Would you care to state the policy once again?
THE PRESIDENT. Of course, the United States voted for U.N. Resolution 242
and 339 [338], so we do believe that within the confines of those words, any
policy in the long run has to fit. But the details, because they were quite general
in many respects—the details will be set forth in the policy statement that I will
make sometime after meeting with President Sadat and Prime Minister Rabin.
MR. DE MEDICI. Do you think that the question of Russian policies and over-
tures in the Middle East should be duly linked perhaps to other areas?
717
