February 7
[80]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
So, it is a privilege for me to join with you in participation in this ceremony of a
man who has earned the honor of being the Attorney General of the United
States, participating in a ceremony for a person who will make certain that all
of our fellow citizens believe this Government when laws are interpreted, when
laws are carried out. And this faith is vitally important for our country at this
very troubled time.
And so, Ed, I congratulate you. I could not help but notice that you were
immensely successful in your confirmation proceedings. You did much better
than I. I spent about 5 days before a Senate committee and did not get unanimous
support. You spent about a day before a Senate committee and were whisked
through the Senate Chamber without a recorded vote.
I compliment you, but it is a compliment to you that the Senate of the United
States has such faith in you, as your associates in the Department of Justice will,
as I do, as President of the United States.
So, it is a privilege for me to ask the Associate Justice of the United States
Supreme Court, Justice Powell, to administer the oath. And Justice Powell, of
course, in his own right, is a man of great legal stature, former president of the
American Bar Association, a man with a renowned reputation in the private
practice.
And so now, I ask Justice Powell if he will administer the oath of office to our
new Attorney General, Ed Levi.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:05 a.m. in the
Great Hall at the Department of Justice. Attorney
General Levi's response to the President's remarks is
printed in the Weekly Compilation of Presidential
Documents (vol. 11, p. 164).
80
Letter Accepting the Resignation of Secretary of Labor
Peter J. Brennan. February 7, 1975
Dear Pete:
I have your letter of February 6, and it is with deepest regret that I accept your
resignation as Secretary of Labor, effective on or about March 15, 1975, as you
requested.
As you depart, however, I want to take this opportunity to tell you how
sincerely grateful I am for your outstanding service to our Nation. You have
served during a time of particular challenge. The strong insights you have
brought to the special problems confronting the American worker today and
the perceptive leadership with which you have directed the Department of
205
