July 10
[393]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
it enacted. And if we fool around, in my judgment, you face the possibility
that it will cither not be extended on the one hand or it could be confused such
that
you wouldn't like it.
So, there is an old adage, you know, a bird in the hand is worth two in the
bush. And I just think and I'll bet Coleman Young there thinks so, too.
Now, let me talk about the new highway bill that I submitted a week or so
ago. I probably had the reputation of being the most dedicated to the Highway
Trust Fund as any Member of the Congress, and I think it did a great job over
a period of some 20 years.
We have substantially built a 42,500-mile Interstate Highway System. Eighty-
six percent of it is completed. We have been collecting 4 cents a gallon in Fed-
eral gasoline excise tax. We have had some other Federal excise taxes go into
the trust fund, but we are coming to the point where it can and will be com-
pleted. But it doesn't need as much funding today as it did before.
And so, I have recommended that out of the 4 cents, 1 cent continues to go
in to fully fund and complete the interstate highway system, 2 of the 4 cents
be turned over to the general fund, and 1 cent of the 4 cents go back to the
States as soon as the respective States enact a 1-cent increase in their gasoline tax.
We keep it until they take it. If they do it under your formula in your respective
State, I think you will be the beneficiary. So help us out.
Now, what else does the program recommend? Under the existing Federal
highway law, there are some 30 categorical grant programs, and there has been
a tendency in recent years to multiply them, not to make them less. And the
net result is that Governors tell me that there is so much inflexibility they can't
adequately and expeditiously go ahead with their roadbuilding programs.
What we have done is to recommend that those 30 categorical grant programs
be reduced to four: the interstate highway program being one, an urban pro-
gram being another, a rural program a third, and the safety program a fourth.
And when you take that program and combine it with the mass transit bill
that we got through with the help of a lot of the mayors here last year, the $11
billion mass transit bill that was put through in the last days of the last session—
if you take the urban highway program and the mass transit program, there is
sufficient money and adequate flexibility for the major metropolitan areas if
they desire-that's your option—to proceed with the development and the
expansion of a mass transit system in our major metropolitan areas.
I hope that you can help us. I believe that it is good for the country—the new
highway program. I believe that it will be immensely beneficial to you and the
people that you so adequately and effectively represent.
957
