[62]
February 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
part of the total economic recovery and energy independence plan I have pro-
posed to the Congress, does just that.
Overcoming the recession is, however, not the only goal of my budget. It is
equally essential that we not rekindle the fires of inflation. I have carefully
gone over the programs proposed by the various executive departments for the
inclusion in the budget.
I have concluded that for this year, at least, it would be imprudent to initiate
any new spending programs, except for energy. None is proposed. Further, it
has been a popular notion to consider some Government expenditures as uncon-
trollable; that is, they would go on and on whether we like it or not. I categori-
cally reject that view. They are controllable, if the Congress on the one hand
and the President on the other do something about them.
My budget proposes significant reductions in a number of programs up to
now considered to be uncontrollable. Together, the reductions I am proposing
amount to $17 billion for fiscal year 1976. I urge the Congress to join me, to work
with me so that we can bring spending under control.
For a while, the one-time tax reduction I have proposed will aid the economy
in overcoming the present recession. The more permanent program expendi-
ture reductions are necessary if we are not to embark on a course of future spend-
ing that will be highly inflationary.
Aside from the effects of my proposed tax reduction, the deficits anticipated
for both 1975 and 1976 are largely the result of aspects of the budget and the
tax system that respond automatically to changes in the economy; that is, in the
case of an economic downturn, Federal tax collections slow down as incomes
and profits slide, and unemployment benefits rise very sharply.
These factors cushion the economy, but they also cost money. Specifically, aid
to the unemployed, including the special measures that I proposed and were
enacted, will be $12.7 billion larger in fiscal year 1976 than they were in fiscal
year 1974. This will provide income support for more than 14.5 million bene-
ficiaries and their families.
Federal receipts for fiscal year 1976 would be more than $40 billion higher
if the economy were operating normally. These factors, apart from any other
consideration, more than account for the deficit in fiscal year 1976.
Or, in short, if the economy were operating at the rate of only a year ago, I
would not be forecasting such a large difference between revenues and expend-
itures. In fact, we would have balanced budgets both this year and next.
Government expenditures at all levels-Federal, State, and local—together
now account for almost one-third of our gross national product. An increasing
142
