May 29
[289]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
-To consult together when any one of us is threatened;
-To consider an armed attack against one as an armed attack against all.
There is no need today to improve on that statement of principles and pur-
poses. It remains as clear, as resolute, and as valid today as when first adopted.
But it is worth reminding ourselves of these pledges as we turn our attention
and energies to the problems we now face both outside and within the Alliance-
problems very different from those we confronted 26 years ago. As NATO
heads of governments and friends, we have a duty to be frank and realistic with
one another. Therefore, I must cite the following matters of concern to the
United States and of importance to the Alliance:
-In Indochina, the events of recent months have resulted in enormous human
suffering for the people of Cambodia and Vietnam, an ordeal that touches
all human hearts. Because of the United States' long involvement in Indo-
china, these events have led some to question our strength and reliability. I
believe that our strength speaks for itself: Our military power remains and
will continue to remain second to none-of this let there be no doubt; our
economy remains fundamentally sound and productive; and our political
system has emerged from the shocks of the past year stronger for the way in
which it met a severe internal test. Our actions will continue to confirm the
durability of our commitments.
—There have been strains and difficulties within the Alliance during the
past year. Serious disagreements have marred relations among some members.
The unity of the Alliance and our common resolve have come into question.
-There are some problems that relate directly to our defense capabilities. I
refer to increasing pressure to reduce the level of military commitments to
NATO, despite the fact that the forces of our potential enemies have grown
stronger. We also face basic problems of military effectiveness. A generation
after its creation, the Alliance wastes vast sums each year, sacrificing military
effectiveness. We have simply not done enough to standardize our weapons.
We must correct this. We must also agree among ourselves on a sensible division
of weapons development programs and production responsibilities. And we
must do more to enhance our mutual capacity to support each other both in
battle and logistically. The pressures on defense budgets throughout the Alli-
ance should by now have convinced each of us that we simply must rationalize
our collective defense.
—In the field of energy, we are still not immune from the political pressures
that result from a heavy dependence on external sources of energy. Indeed, we
are becoming more vulnerable each month. We have made joint progress in
739
