[129]
March 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
choice in politics. It would be measured by the death of the effective two-party
system, which is so vital to our Nation.
In far too many cities and counties, and even some States, there is still virtually
one-party rule. Voters can only ratify the decisions of the single surviving party.
And in far too many of the same areas, corruption and abuse march hand-in-
hand with one-party misrule.
The abiding virtues of a strong two-party system are threefold: First, it pro-
vides a continuing choice. Second, the system forces the maximum of accom-
modation and compromise, instead of promoting stalemates encouraged by
splinter parties. Third, the system excludes the fanatic factions which cannot be
accommodated, but includes the broadest range of reasonable differences and,
thus, holds both major parties closer to the mainstream of public opinion in
this great country.
To make sure that Republicans are really on the rise, we must make some
practical changes in our political ways—not in principles, but in approaches.
As a starter, we must discard the attitude of exclusiveness that has kept the
Republican Party's door closed too often-[applause]. With your indulgence,
may I make a final comment on that sentence. We must discard the attitude of
exclusiveness that has kept the Republican Party's door closed too often while we
give speeches about keeping it open.
It seems to me we must erect a tent that is big enough for all who care about
this great country and believe in the Republican Party enough to work through
it for common goals.
This tent, as I see it, must also be kept open to the growing number of
independent voters who refuse to wear any party label, but who will support
strong candidates and good programs that we as a party can have and will
present. These voters must be welcomed and won to our cause.
We must be prepared, then, to overcome the cynicism of voters by offering
candidates of outstanding ability and rock-hard integrity. We must also build
a party that works all the time. It must be more than a preelection force that
goes out of business after the votes are counted on election day. And perhaps
most important of all, we must demonstrate conclusively that, as a party, we
care about people—that we care about people first, last, and always, and always
will.
Over the past decade or so, the attitudes of the American people have changed
about government in general and politics in particular.
Years of war, three major assassinations, official duplicity, and rapid and
340
