April 23
[208]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
I envision a creative program that goes as far as our courage and our capacities
can take us, both at home and abroad. My goal is for a cooperative world at
peace, using its resources to build, not to destroy.
As President, I am determined to offer leadership to overcome our current
economic problems. My goal is for jobs for all who want to work and economic
opportunity for all who want to achieve.
I am determined to seek self-sufficiency in energy as an urgent national
priority. My goal is to make America independent of foreign energy sources by
1985.
Of course, I will pursue interdependence with other nations and a reformed
international economic system. My goal is for a world in which consuming
and producing nations achieve a working balance.
I will address the humanitarian issues of hunger and famine, of health and of
healing. My goal is to achieve—or to assure basic needs and an effective system to
achieve this result.
I recognize the need for technology that enriches life while preserving our
natural environment. My goal is to stimulate productivity, but use technology to
redeem, not to destroy our environment.
I will strive for new cooperation rather than conflict in the peaceful explora-
tion of our oceans and our space. My goal is to use resources for peaceful progress
rather than war and destruction.
Let America symbolize humanity's struggle to conquer nature and master
technology. The time has now come for our Government to facilitate the individ-
ual's control over his or her future-and of the future of America.
But the future requires more than Americans congratulating themselves on
how much we know and how many products that we can produce. It requires
new knowledge to meet new problems. We must not only be motivated to build
a better America, we must know how to do it.
If we really want a humane America that will, for instance, contribute to the
alleviation of the world's hunger, we must realize that good intentions do not
feed people. Some problems, as anyone who served in the Congress knows, are
complex. There are no easy answers. Willpower alone does not grow food.
We thought, in a well-intentioned past, that we could export our technology
lock, stock, and barrel to developing nations. We did it with the best of inten-
tions. But we are now learning that a strain of rice that grows in one place will
not grow in another; that factories that produce at 100 percent in one nation
produce less than half as much in a society where temperaments and work habits
are somewhat different.
571
