January 23
[45]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
were some very, very precipitous actions in the economy that nobody foresaw.
We had the economic summit, as you know, Tom, and nobody at that summit
told us that automobile sales were going to drop off as suddenly as they did in
November and December and in January.
Nobody who testified or spoke indicated that the unemployment would go
up as rapidly as it did. What we have done in the proposals that I submitted on
January 15 was to take into consideration the dropoff in automobile sales, the
tremendous increase in unemployment, and to tailor our plan or program to
meet unemployment, to provide jobs; because in the meantime, inflation had
moderated, or the rate of inflation had moderated, so there was a change of
economic circumstances, and in reality, I had to be flexible enough to change
the emphasis.
MR. CHANCELLOR. Mr. President, it seems to me I heard you say a few minutes
ago that if the program you started today doesn't work, that you would go to
allocations. Could you expand on that a little bit, how that would work?
Wouldn't that require a sizable bureaucracy in itself?
The President. No, I think it would be much less bureaucratically a burden
than gas rationing. I didn't mention in the conversation with Tom the number
of bureaucrats that I am told it would take for gas-15 to 20 thousand for gas
rationing.
But you see, when the foreign crude oil or the products of crude oil come in
from overseas, it is much easier to handle that than to handle the allocation
through rationing at the gas station or through the 30 or 40 thousand post offices.
MR. CHANCELLOR. So that allocation would be a possibility, if this doesn't
work?
'THE PRESIDENT. That is correct.
MR. CHANCELLOR. Now you told, I think it was Time magazine, that we
might have gas rationing if we get another oil embargo. Is that correct?
THE PRESIDENT. Another oil embargo which would deprive us of anywhere
from 6 to 7 million barrels of oil a day would create a very serious crisis.
MR. CHANCELLOR. But is that a likelihood, sir? As I understand it, of those
7 million barrels a day, only about 8 percent come from the Arab countries, or
10, or something like that.
The President. I can't give you that particular statistic. It would depend, of
course, on whether the Shah of Iran or Venezuela or some of the other oil-
producing countries cooperated.
At the time of the October 1973 oil embargo, we did get some black market
oil; we got it from some of the noncooperating countries. But in the interval,
95
