[64]
February 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
1976-a 40% increase in beneficiaries since 1971. Federal health programs also
provide health care and insurance for Federal employees, veterans, and other
groups. In total, existing Federal health programs now pay about 27% of the
Nation's total health bill.
GENERAL REVENUE SHARING.-General Revenue Sharing has become an inte-
gral and important part of the Federal grants-in-aid system. This program has
been highly successful, providing fiscal assistance that can be applied flexibly
to meet the needs of States and localities according to their priorities. It has dis-
tributed assistance more equitably than before, reaching many local governments
that had not received Federal aid in the past.
Current authority for general revenue sharing will expire at the end of calen-
dar year 1976. Because I believe in the soundness of this program, I shall propose
legislation extending general revenue sharing through fiscal year 1982. Prompt
action by the Congress on the proposed extension will permit State and local
governments to plan their future budgets more effectively and avoid the waste
and inefficiencies that prolonged budgetary uncertainties would create. In addi-
tion, the energy tax equalization payments to State and local governments will
be distributed according to the formula used for general revenue sharing.
TRANSPORTATION.-My budget recommendations anticipate legislation that I
shall propose to extend the Highway Trust Fund through 1980 for the Interstate
Highway System only, and increaes its funding. My proposal will focus trust
fund assistance on completion of key segments of the Interstate Highway System
needed to link the national system together. They will also combine a number
of narrow categorical grant programs to eliminate red tape and allow localities
greater flexibility in meeting their transportation problems. In 1978, States will
be permitted, under this proposal, to assume over $1 billion of Federal motor
fuel tax receipts for local needs.
In order to improve the safety and efficiency of the Nation's aviation system,
and to increase its responsiveness to current needs, I will propose legislation to
restructure Federal airport and airway development programs. My proposal will
broaden the range of aviation activities that may be financed from the Airport
and Airway Trust Fund, eliminate unnecessary Federal involvement in airport
investment decisions, and allocate user fees more equitably among aviation
system users.
BUDGET REFORM
As demands on the budget have grown, the need for better congressional proce-
dures for considering the budget has become increasingly clear. In the past the
160
