[341]
June 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
provements in the law itself. The other is through improvement of the criminal
justice system so that it functions more swiftly, surely and justly.
Federal criminal laws should be a model upon which State and local govern-
ments can pattern their own laws. At the present time, they are not. These
Federal statutes developed haphazardly over the decades. They have been
revised here and there in response to changing judicial interpretation. They are
complicated, and sometimes conflicting, leaving gaps through which crim-
inal activity too often slips unpunished. Because of their complexity, the laws
invite technical arguments that waste court time without ever going to the
heart of the question of the accused's guilt or innocence.
For several years, the Federal government has engaged in a massive effort
to reform the Federal criminal laws into a uniform, coherent code. The product
of this effort was recently introduced in Congress, with wide bipartisan sup-
port, as S. 1, the "Criminal Justice Reform Act of 1975."
Since it covers every aspect of criminal law, some of the proposals in this
Act have stirred controversy and will undoubtedly precipitate further debate.
For instance, concern has been expressed that certain provisions of the bill
designed to protect classified information could adversely affect freedom of the
press. While we must make sure that national security secrets are protected by
law, we must also take care that the law does not unreasonably restrict the free
flow of information necessary to our form of government. Responsible debate
over this and other provisions of S. 1 will be very useful. Issues can be clarified
and differing interests accommodated.
I think everyone will agree, however, that comprehensive reform of the
Federal criminal code is needed. Accordingly, as a legislative priority in the
Federal effort against crime, I urge the 94th Congress to pass the kind of com-
prehensive code reform embodied in the Criminal Justice Reform Act.
In connection with this overall effort, let me suggest some specific reforms
I believe essential.
The sentencing provisions of current Federal law are, in my judgment, inade-
quate in several respects, often erratic and inconsistent. Defendants who com-
mit similar offenses may receive widely varying sentences. This lack of uni-
formity is profoundly unfair and breeds disrespect for the law.
The revision of the criminal code should restore a sense of consistency in
sentencing, so that the fine or term of imprisonment imposed by the law re-
lates directly to the gravity of the offense. For example, criminal fines are woe-
fully inadequate and provide little deterrence to offenders whose business is
crime—a business profitable enough to support current levels of criminal fines
842
