May 27
[283]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
30 days, the second $1 fee on imported oil. Even then, I still hoped for positive
Congressional action.
So, what has the Congress done in May about energy? Congress did nothing
and went home for a 10-day recess.
February, March, April, May—as of now, the Congress has done nothing
positive to end our energy dependence.
On the contrary, it has taken two negative actions: the first, an attempt to
prevent the President from doing anything on his own, the second, to pass a
strip mining bill which would reduce domestic coal production instead of
increasing it, put thousands of people out of work, needlessly increase the cost of
energy to consumers, raise electric bills for many, and compel us to import more
foreign oil, not less.
I was forced to veto this anti-energy bill last week because I will not be respon-
sible for taking one step backward on energy when the Congress will not take
one step forward on energy.
The Congress has concentrated its attention on conservation measures such as
a higher gasoline tax. The Congress has done little or nothing to stimulate
production of new energy sources here at home. At Elk Hills Naval Petroleum
Reserve in California, I saw oil wells waiting to produce 300,000 barrels a day if
the Congress would change the law to permit it.
There are untold millions of barrels more in our Alaskan petroleum reserves
and under the Continental Shelf. We could save 300,000 barrels a day if only the
Congress would allow more electric powerplants to substitute American coal
for foreign oil. Peaceful atomic power, which we pioneered, is advancing faster
abroad than at home.
Still the Congress does nothing about energy. We are today worse off than
we were in January. Domestic oil production is going down, down, down.
Natural gas production is starting to dwindle. And many areas face severe
shortages next winter. Coal production is still at the levels of the 1940's. Foreign
oil suppliers are considering another price increase. I could go on and on, but
you know the facts. This country needs to regain its independence from foreign
sources of energy, and the sooner the better.
There is no visible energy shortage now, but we could have one overnight. We
do not have an energy crisis, but we may have one next winter. We do have an
energy problem, a very grave problem, but one we can still manage and solve if
we are successful internationally and can act decisively domestically.
Four months are already lost. The Congress has acted only negatively. I must
now do what I can do as President.
731
