[30]
January 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
stitute an "international fishery conservation program." Objections to adopted
quotas are permitted by the terms of the Convention. An objecting country is
not legally bound by the quota. Whether or not the objection is legal, however,
does not alter the fact that exceeding the quotas will diminish the effectiveness
of the program. It constitutes a prima facie case for application of the Pelly
Amendment.
Last year both Japan and Russia objected to the minke and sperm whale
quotas set by the IWC. In the case of the minke whale, a quota of 5,000 whales
was set for the Antarctic. This figure was admittedly an informed estimate of
the maximum sustainable yield of the stock, since precise figures on existing
populations were lacking. Relatively few of these small whales had been pre-
viously taken. Nonetheless, the quota represented the best judgment of the
scientific advisors and was duly adopted by the member nations. The Soviet
Union and Japan voted against this quota. They said the figure should be 8,000,
and formally objected to the quota. They then announced that each would take
4,000 minke whales during the 1973-1974 season. In fact, the Soviet Union took
4,000 and Japan took 3,713. This represented an excess of 2,713, or approxi-
mately 50 percent over quota.
To date, no prohibition has been imposed under the terms of the Pelly
Amendment. I have decided to impose no such prohibition at this time. My
decision is based upon the results of this year's meeting of the IWC in London.
At this meeting, most of the member nations adopted an Australian amend-
ment to the United States 10-year moratorium resolution. The amended resolu-
tion establishes the principle of a selective moratorium applicable to any stocks
of whales which fall below their maximum sustainable yield levels or optimum
population levels as these are determined. In effect, the selective moratorium
shall prevent any whale stock from becoming endangered. According to its
terms, the resolution shall be implemented in the 1975-1976 whaling conserva-
tion measures fixed by the IWC next year.
The June meeting also produced an agreement to strengthen the Secretariat
and to convene a working level meeting to consider changes in the International
Whaling Convention itself. In addition, the Commission's quotas for the 1974-
1975 season incorporated some conservation improvements not included in the
quotas for the last season. The Soviets and Japanese voted for the 1974-1975
quotas and, in general, appeared to be more conciliatory than during previous
meetings. They, therefore, provided some hope that all member nations would
comply with the resolution and with the 1974-1975 quotas.
48
