February 3
[64]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
in both current and constant dollar terms, growing from 11.6% of the gross
national product in 1969 to an estimated 16.0% in this budget. In the process,
the form that Federal spending takes has shifted dramatically away from sup-
port for direct Federal operations and toward direct benefits to individuals and
grants to State and local governments. About a third of the latter also help to
finance payments to individuals. Both legislated increases and built-in program
growth have contributed to the doubling of outlays for domestic assistance in
the past five years. The sharp drop in defense manpower and procurement has
helped make this possible without tax increases or larger deficits.
It is no longer realistically possible to offset increasing costs of defense pro-
grams by further reducing military programs and strength. Therefore, this
budget proposes an increase in defense outlays in current dollars that will
maintain defense preparedness and preserve manpower levels in the face of
rising costs. These proposals are the minimum prudent levels of defense spend-
ing consistent with providing armed forces which, in conjunction with those
of our allies, will be adequate to maintain the military balance. Keeping that
balance is essential to our national security and to the maintenance of peace.
In 1969, defense outlays were nearly one-fifth more than combined outlays
for aid to individuals under human resource programs and for aid to State and
local governments. Despite the increase in current-dollar defense outlays, this
budget-only seven years later-proposes spending twice as much money for
aid to individuals and State and local governments as for defense.
Outlays for assistance to individuals and to State and local governments will
rise from $140 billion in 1974 to $173 billion in 1975, and $190 billion in 1976.
These increases include the costs of the emergency unemployment assistance
measures enacted last December, together with increased outlays under the regu-
lar unemployment insurance system. Outlays for other benefit programs, includ-
ing Social Security, Supplemental Security Income, Medicare, and Medicaid,
will also increase substantially.
The budget carries forward a philosophy that stresses an appropriate sepa-
ration of public and private sector responsibilities. Within the sphere of public
sector responsibilities, it calls for Federal emphasis on meeting national prob-
lems and encourages State and local responsibility and initiative in meeting local
and statewide needs. Broader Federal aid to States and localities and a reduction
in the Federal restrictions imposed as requirements for this aid are key elements
of this philosophy. In 1974, Federal aid supplied 21% of total State and local
government receipts, more than twice the percentage of two decades earlier.
My budget recommends Federal grants-in-aid of $56 billion in 1976.
153
