February 4
[70]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
proposed are the result of careful study, but they will not produce swift and
immediate results. I believe that these programs and proposals will be effective.
I urge the Congress to adopt them and to help me follow through with further
measures that changing circumstances may make desirable. In our efforts we
must recognize that the remedies we devise must be both effective and consistent
with the long-term objectives that are important for the future well-being of our
economy. For the sake of taking one step forward we must not adopt policies
which will eventually carry us two steps backward.
As I proposed to you in my State of the Union message, the economy needs
an immediate 1-year tax cut of $16 billion. This is an essential first move in any
program to restore purchasing power, rebuild the confidence of consumers, and
increase investment incentives for business.
Several different proposals to reduce individual taxes were considered care-
fully in our search for the best way to help the economy. We chose the method
that would best provide immediate stimulus to the economy without perma-
nently exacerbating our budget problem. Accordingly, I recommend a 12 per-
cent rebate of 1974 taxes, up to a maximum of $1,000. The rebate will be paid
in two large lump-sum payments totaling $12 billion, the first beginning in
May and the second by September.
I have also proposed a $4-billion investment tax credit which would encour-
age businessmen to make new commitments and expenditures now on projects
that can be put in place this year or by the end of next year.
The prompt enactment of the $16-billion tax reduction is a matter of
utmost urgency if we are to bolster the natural forces of economic recov-
ery. But in recognizing the need for a temporary tax cut, I am not unmindful
of the fact that it will increase the size of the budget deficit. This is all the more
reason to intensify our efforts to restrain the growth in Federal spending. I have
asked Congress to institute actions which will pare $17 billion from the fiscal
1976 budget. Even so, we foresee a deficit of more than $50 billion for the fiscal
year beginning July 1. Moreover, even without new expenditure initiatives, the
budget deficit is likely to remain excessively large in fiscal 1977. As a conse-
quence, I will propose no new expenditure programs except those required by
the energy program.
I am also asking the Congress to join me in finding additional ways to slow the
rate of increase in Federal spending. Budget outlays for new programs or for
expansion of existing ones would have their economic effect long after the
economic recovery gets under way. It is essential that the deficit be reduced
markedly as the economy begins to return toward full employment. Control of
173
