April 23
[207]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
privilege and a very high honor to have the opportunity of being here in New
Orleans and participating in your 73d annual convention.
They say the Navy offers opportunity, and you had better believe it. In 1942,
I became an ensign, one of those 90-day wonders. In 1943, I became a lieutenant.
In 1945, I became a lieutenant commander. And in 1974, I became Commander
in Chief. Now, you can't ask for any more opportunity than that. [Laughter]
I do have to admit that being Commander in Chief of all of our Armed Forces
does present me with one of several problems-in November, at the Army-Navy
game, for example. I now have to spend half of the game rooting for the Army
and half of the game rooting for the Navy. Fortunately, the late President
Kennedy came up with the perfect solution to a somewhat similar problem. He
was in Iowa just before their big game with Notre Dame, and someone asked him
who he would be rooting for. John Kennedy said, “I will be rooting for Iowa.” A
tremendous cheer went up. Then he added, “But I will be praying for Notre
Dame." [Laughter] So, come the Army-Navy game, I will let you figure out
who I will be rooting for and who I will be praying for.
But there is a much more serious subject than the Army-Navy game that I
would like to discuss with you for a few moments—the strength and the size of
our merchant marine and our Navy. Both are as vital as anyone can imagine to
our survival as a nation, and yet, both of them face very serious problems. But
the problems are not insolvable.
In the case of the merchant marine, I have always believed in doing everything
possible to keep the American flag flying over a large, modern, competitive
merchant marine.
In Congress, I worked long and hard with many, many others to help pass the
Merchant Marine Act of 1970. This very important legislation initiated a Federal
program to improve the international competitive position of the United States
merchant marine. Through this program, contracts will have been awarded by
June 13 of this year for new construction or conversion of approximately 77 ships,
with an annual funding of some $284 million.
Budget requests for construction subsidies will continue at approximately
the same level in the next fiscal year. Expenditures for operational subsidies for
United States flagships will climb—and, I think, appropriately—to a record
high of $316 million. Our total Federal expenditures for Federal maritime
programs and bear in mind they are an integral, vital part of our total seagoing
Navy-will be some $678 million as compared with a relatively smaller sum of
about $500 million 2 years ago.
I give you my word that we will have a vital merchant marine in the future,
563
