January 28
[53]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
53
Special Message to the Congress Requesting Supplemental
Assistance for the Republic of Vietnam and Cambodia.
January 28, 1975
To the Congress of the United States:
Two years ago the Paris Agreement was signed, and several weeks later was
endorsed by major nations including the Soviet Union, the United Kingdom,
France and the People's Republic of China. We had succeeded in negotiating an
Agreement that provided the framework for lasting peace in Southeast Asia.
This Agreement would have worked had Hanoi matched our side's efforts to
implement it. Unfortunately, the other side has chosen to violate most of the
major provisions of this Accord.
The South Vietnamese and Cambodians are fighting hard in their own de-
fense, as recent casualty figures clearly demonstrate. With adequate U.S. material
assistance, they can hold their own. We cannot turn our backs on these embattled
countries. U.S. unwillingness to provide adequate assistance to allies fighting for
their lives would seriously affect our credibility throughout the world as an
ally. And this credibility is essential to our national security.
VIETNAM
When the Paris Agreement was signed, all Americans hoped that it would
provide a framework under which the Vietnamese people could make their
own political choices and resolve their own problems in an atmosphere of
peace.
In compliance with that Agreement, the United States withdrew its forces
and its military advisors from Vietnam. In further compliance with the Agree-
ment, the Republic of Vietnam offered a comprehensive political program
designed to reconcile the differences between the South Vietnamese parties and
to lead to free and supervised elections throughout all of South Vietnam. The
Republic of Vietnam has repeatedly reiterated this offer and has several times
proposed a specific date for a free election open to all South Vietnamese
political groups.
Unfortunately, our hopes for peace and for reconciliation have been frus-
trated by the persistent refusal of the other side to abide by even the most
fundamental provisions of the Agreement. North Vietnam has sent its forces
119
