February 25
[105]
Gerald R. Ford, 1975
I think these projects show there is not just one way, but many, many ways
to observe the Nation's 200th birthday. And I vividly recall, as a young lad, being
taught that the beauty of Joseph's coat is its many, many colors. Just as the
strength of the Nation comes from the richness of its many ideas, so does the
strength of the Bicentennial.
This celebration period is an important opportunity for this Nation to reflect
on the past and, even more so, to look to the future. John Adams envisioned
the celebration of the Declaration of Independence in a letter to his wife,
Abigail, in July of 1776. John Adams wrote the following: "I am apt to believe
that it will be celebrated by succeeding generations as the great anniversary
festival. It ought to be commemorated as the day of deliverance, by solemn
actions of devotion to Almighty God. It ought to be solemnized with pomp
and parade, with shows, games, sports, guns, bells, bonfires and illuminations,
from one end of this continent to the other, from this time forward forevermore."
John Adams, who would later be the first Vice President and the second Presi-
dent of the United States, did not know, at that time, what the outcome of the
Declaration of Independence would be, nor did he realize that the day would
come when the United States would stretch across the continent and across the
distant seas.
But like other revolutionary leaders, he had faith in the future of the un-
formed nation. Those were exciting, those were frustrating, and those were
confusing times.
Letters and newspapers were carried by horseback or by ship, but the fer-
ment of the ideas was strong enough to overcome the limited means of
communication.
The Continental Congress, composed of representatives from different States,
oftentimes with conflicting interests, faced the almost insurmountable job of
agreeing long enough to fight a war with limited funds and limited manpower.
It was a tough job, because it is always difficult to unite clashing demands.
But the job was done, the Revolution was successful, and a unique Constitution
was written. Those Americans did not fail us.
As Thomas Jefferson wrote Lafayette: "We are not to be expected to be trans-
lated from despotism to liberty in a featherbed.”
And the Americans who inherited the new form of government knew what
Jefferson meant. They did not fail us. We are here today because no ensuing
generation of our fellow Americans found self-government to be a featherbed.
Now, as we commemorate the deeds of the first citizens of the Nation, we
275
