[415]
May 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
millions of Americans are forced to live in a climate of fear. I favor bringing
the criminals who cause that fear to swift and certain justice. Making it easy
on criminals invites crime, and the certainty of punishment helps to stop it. I
have no patience with those who picture the violent criminal as a helpless vic-
tim of society's neglect.
Many violent criminals are not victims of society but the enemies of society,
and they should be dealt with as the public enemies that they are. Most crimes
in this country are committed by a small hardcore of lawbreakers, many of
whom are chronic offenders. Too often these violent and habitual criminals are
returned to the streets without spending a day in jail, even after they are con-
victed of a serious crime.
This is not justice to the victims of crime or to society as a whole. And I in-
tend to see to it, as far as the Federal Government is concerned, that justice is
done in the United States of America.
I strongly advocate mandatory, minimum sentences for criminals who re-
peatedly commit Federal crimes that harm or endanger others. Last week I
sent to the Congress legislation to require the imposition of mandatory, mini-
mum sentences for those convicted of trafficking in heroin and other similar
narcotic drugs. Sentences under this legislation would be at least for 3 years
for the first offense and for at least 6 years for subsequent offenses or for selling
hard drugs to minors. Parole would not be permitted.
I have recommended that the Congress reduce the criminal use of handguns
by imposing mandatory sentences for crimes involving the use of a handgun
or other dangerous weapons. Disarming law-abiding citizens is not the way to
do it.
And I'm also very glad to report that the Law Enforcement Assistance Ad-
ministration and the Administration on Aging last week signed an agreement
to target law enforcement resources on the criminal threat to the elderly in
America.
I think the success of our law enforcement efforts can be seen in the fact that
the rate of increase in crime nationwide has been cut in half during this ad-
ministration. It's still too high, but it went from 17 percent in 1974 to 9 percent
in 1975.
What we are trying to do will reduce it in the future even further, and we
are going to work at it. Of course, we must pursue the constitutional goal of
ensuring domestic tranquility with due regard for the constitutional rights of
those accused. But the time has come to put more emphasis on the protection
1410
