[398]
April 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
to have the B-1. We have two to three times more than they have. Our missiles
are far more accurate and far more reliable.
So, when you get the whole picture put together, I have complete confidence
that our military capability is fully sufficient, adequate to carry out any mission,
to deter aggression, to maintain the peace and to protect our national security.
And we are going to keep it that way.
Q. Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you all very, very much. It has been great being in
Dallas, and we appreciate your understanding. And we will work hard to main-
tain our commitment to you, and I can assure you we won't let you down.
Thank you, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:58 a.m. in the Con-
tinental Ballroom at the Northpark Inn Convention
Center. The forum was sponsored by the Dallas
Chamber of Commerce.
In his opening remarks, the President referred to
Edward O. Vetter, chairman of the National Affairs
Committee, Dallas Chamber of Commerce; Senator
John G. Tower, chairman of the Texas President
Ford Committee; Mavor Robert Folsom of Dallas;
Russell Perry, chairman of the board of directors,
and Thomas Unis, vice chairman of the board of
directors of public affairs, Dallas Chamber of Com
merce; and Tom Landry, head coach of the Dallas
Cowboys football team.
399
Exchange With Reporters on Departure From Dallas.
April 30, 1976
REPORTER. How essential is the Texas primary to you?
THE PRESIDENT. It's a very crucial primary. It's a wonderful State. It's one of
our largest States. It has got a wide diversity of people and industry. So, it's a
great reflection of the United States as a whole. So, we are trying our very best
to win, and we are, I think, making a lot of headway.
Q. Some people have said that the closing of air bases and several other things
relative to military matters in Texas have hurt you. Do you feel that's so?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think so because most of the people understand that
the Congress has imposed on us by substantially reducing the funds for the mili-
tary. So, the blame fundamentally falls on the shoulders of Congress.
It's nice to see you all. Thank you very much. We have enjoyed being here in
Dallas.
Q. Do you think you are going to win in Texas?
THE PRESIDENT, Well, we are getting more and more optimistic, and our vol-
unteers have done a great job all over the State of Texas. And leadership with
1360
