June 24
[615]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
a continuation is necessary, it could do so only for an additional two years.
Thereafter, the court could continue busing only in the most extraordinary
circumstances, where there has been a failure or delay of other remedial efforts
or where the residual effects of unlawful discrimination are unusually severe.
Great concern has been expressed that submission of this bill at this time
would encourage those who are resisting court-ordered desegregation—some-
times to the point of violence.
Let me here state, simply and directly, that this Administration will not
tolerate unlawful segregation.
We will act swiftly and effectively against anyone who engages in violence.
I assure the people of this Nation that this Administration will do whatever
it must to preserve order and to protect the Constitutional rights of our citizens.
The purpose of submitting this legislation now is to place the debate on this
controversial issue in the halls of Congress and in the democratic process—not
in the streets of our cities.
The strength of America has always been our ability to deal with our own
problems in a responsible and orderly way.
We can do so again if every American will join with me in affirming our
historic commitment to a Nation of laws, a people of equality, a society of oppor-
tunity.
I call on the Congress to write into law a new perspective which sees court-
ordered busing as a tool to be used with the highest selectivity and the utmost
precision.
I call on the leaders of all the Nation's school districts which may yet face
court orders to move voluntarily, promptly, objectively and compassionately
to desegregate their schools.
We must eliminate discrimination in America.
We must summon the best in ourselves to the cause of achieving the highest
possible quality of education for each and every American child.
The White House,
GERALD R. FORD
June 24, 1976.
NOTE: A copy of the draft bill and a section-by-section analysis were made a part of the release.
1913
