[566]
June 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
here in the next 24 hours to do our very best to make sure that the message of
the Ford administration comes across.
It is a message of restoration, of confidence and trust in the Federal Govern-
ment, the Presidency itself. It is a message of turning an economy around which
a year ago was in the depths of a recession. We have made substantial progress
in reducing inflation in the last 22 months. We have reduced the rate of inflation
on an annual basis from about 12 percent to 3 percent or less, which is a 75-
percent cut in inflation. And this affects everybody.
We have added in the last 12 months 3,600,000 more jobs. In the last month,
the month of May, we have added 300,000 more jobs. At the present time, ac-
cording to the Department of Labor, we have 87,700,000 people gainfully em-
ployed in the United States, an alltime record. But we are not satisfied because
unemployment is too high. I won't be satisfied until we have a job for everybody
who wants a job. That is the objective of the Ford administration.
This administration has followed a course of giving tax reductions to the
American taxpayer. Last year, we recommended a tax reduction; the Congress
went along with it. In January of this year, I proposed another $10 billion tax
cut that would come July 1. Included in that tax reduction is an increase in the
personal exemption from $750 ot $1,000 for every individual taxpayer. This is the
kind of tax reduction that the American people want and deserve. It gives them
an opportunity to spend their money instead of having the Federal Government
spend it for them.
In addition, the administration has recommended a substantial reduction in
the rate of growth of Federal spending. Unfortunately, the Democratic Congress
has added some $17 billion to the proposed budget for the next fiscal year.
I can assure you that this administration is going to fight not only to reduce
taxes as of July 1 but to make certain that we cut as much as we possibly can
below the budget-busting proposals of the Democratic Congress.
This country is on the road to sound and, I think, permanent prosperity under
this administration's policies, and we intend to pursue those policies for the
next 4 years.
I will be glad to answer a couple of questions.
REPORTER. Mr. President, in the advance text of your speech tonight, you
say America is tired of those who belittle the Nation and are poisoning the
political debate. Who is doing that?
THE PRESIDENT. I think as you look around the spectrum of Presidential
aspirants, there are a number who do it, and I will let the record speak for itself.
Q. In both parties, or the Republican Party?
1814
