May 24
[522]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
During my administration, we are reversing the trend. We're going to make
sure that we do the right thing for the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, and
Marines, because you and I depend upon them for our security, for the mainte-
nance of peace and the deterrence of aggression. We are proud of these young
men, these leaders in our military forces, and I look around here and see them—
gee, America owes them a great deal, and I thank each and every one of you
for it.
I'm delighted to see Paul Priolo here, a great leader in your State legislature,
and Bob Wilkinson, a great representative of local government. Believe me, it
is a pleasure to work with them and to have their help and support.
But I am here primarily to ask for a solid mandate from you so that I can
finish the job and make America truly secure for future generations. I will
maintain the peace. I will secure the peace through strength and perseverance
and leave the legacy of peace for our children and their children. I will continue
my policies of cutting your taxes, expanding the private economy, reducing
bureaucracy and useless regulation, restraining Federal spending.
These policies have brought us from the depth of a recession to a sustained
recovery and will ensure that runaway inflation never robs you or our loved
ones of the rewards of honest work and lifetime savings.
Finally, I will finish the job in the 4 years—the restoration of trust and con-
fidence in the Presidency itself. As your President, I will promise no more than
I can deliver, and I will deliver everything that I promise.
Americans have always wanted a life better for our children than it was for
each of us, because life has always been better for us than it was for our parents.
I will tell you what I see ahead for the great country that we live in. I see a
strong and confident America, secure in a strength that cannot alone be counted
in megatons, a nation rejoicing in its blessings that cannot be eroded by infla-
tion or by taxation. I see an America where life is valued for its quality as well
as its comfort, where the individual is inviolate in his constitutional rights, where
the government serves and the people rule.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:45 p.m. at the
Van Nuys Airport. In his opening remarks, he re-
ferred to Evelle J. Younger, California State attorney
general, Paul Priolo, California State assemblyman,
Robert M. Wilkinson, Los Angeles city councilman,
Johnnie Grant, master of ceremonies, Rosemary
Ferraro and Alice Ogle, cochairmen of the Los
Angeles County President Ford Committee, Ted
Pierce, regional chairman for the West Los Angeles
and San Fernando Valley area President Ford
Committees, and Richard Lithgow, president of
the Van Nuys Chamber of Commerce.
1703
