[535]
May 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
propose to attract the votes of the Reagan supporters, particularly the Wallace
crossovers to Reagan?
THE PRESIDENT. I want to appeal to as many Democrats as I possibly can, and
that is what I did in Michigan in the recent primary. My opponent very obvi-
ously wanted the Wallace element and only the Wallace element. I appealed in
Michigan to all Democrats and all Independents who wanted to cross over
and vote for me if they believed in my record and believed in what I was trying
to do. And we got a tremendous number of Democrats in Michigan to cross
over, and I'm very proud of it.
Now, after we get the nomination in Kansas City, we will naturally want to
get as many Democrats as we can because the Republican Party, according to
statistics, has only about 19 percent of the public and the Democratic Party has
35 to 40 percent, as I recall. The rest of the people are Independents.
So, a Republican candidate for the Presidency has to have a lot of support
from Independents and a significant support from Democrats. And the experi-
ence in Michigan, where I got a broad spectrum of Independents as well as
Democrats certainly is conclusive that I have a very good appeal to Independent
voters as well as broad-minded and, I think, very wise Democrats.
ALTERNATIVES TO SCHOOL BUSING
[15.] Q. Mr. President, I think any number of people are a little confused
about the status of the so-called alternatives to court-ordered busing. Just last
week, you told a group of Kentucky editors just before the Kentucky primary
that you had three alternatives that you were studying and that you would be
making a judgment on them within a few weeks.
At that same meeting, you said the Justice Department may choose Louisville
when, in fact, the Justice Department was not at that time considering Louisville.
Do you now have those alternatives before you or, as you have indicated tonight,
will they come from David Mathews? And finally, as a result of all this con-
fusion, don't you see how the impression is left strongly that you may be doing
this for political reasons?
THE PRESIDENT. I think you have confused it by not relating the whole
sequence of events. I have repeatedly said that last November I called in the
Attorney General and the Secretary of HEW and said I wanted a better answer
so we could achieve quality education and not tear up society in a city such as
Boston. A month or two later they came back with a number of options. I said
they ought to winnow them down. This was well before any Presidential
primaries were on the agenda.
1754
