April 30
[413]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
to compensatory import concessions or retaliation against U.S. exports. This
would have been detrimental to American jobs and damaged U.S. exports.
Adjustment assistance can benefit the smaller enterprises which have been
seriously injured. Import relief would disproportionately benefit firms which
produce a substantial part of domestic output, and which are able to compete
with imports.
Adjustment assistance is consistent with the President's efforts to control infla-
tion, including costs to all consumers, which import restrictions would raise.
In considering the effect of import restraints on the international economic
interests of the United States, as required by the Trade Act of 1974, I have con-
cluded that such restraints would be contrary to the U.S. policy of promoting
the development of an open, nondiscriminatory and fair world economic sys-
tem. The goal of this policy is to expand domestic employment and living
standards through increased economic efficiency.
I have directed the Secretaries of Commerce and Labor to give expeditious
consideration to any petitions for adjustment assistance filed by stainless steel
flatware firms producing articles covered by the USITC report, and their work-
ers, and communities.
The White House,
April 30, 1976.
413
GERALD R. FORD
Letter to the Speaker of the House and the President of the
Senate Transmitting Proposed Narcotic Sentencing and
Seizure Legislation. April 30, 1976
THERE IS transmitted herewith a bill containing the Administration's pro-
posals for increasing the effectiveness of the criminal justice system in protecting
the American people from trafficking in heroin and other narcotic drugs.
This legislation, which implements the recommendations contained in my
special message to the Congress on drug abuse, would, if enacted, improve our
ability to put the traffickers of hard drugs into prison. It would also improve
our ability to take the easy profits out of drug trafficking as well as our capacity
to detect and apprehend drug smugglers.
Considering the terrible toll that narcotic addiction takes, it is a matter of
1405
