May 3
[418]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
The President. We have always considered the Indiana primary a very im-
portant primary. As you well know, I have been in Indiana twice; my wife has
been here on one occasion. We have a first-class organization. We have the
support of the Governor. We have the support of many public officials as well
as many, many volunteers, which is an indication of how important we feel the
Indiana primary is.
I think any apathy on behalf of my candidacy will have been gone as a result
of the situation in Texas. So we think the situation is crucial, and we are making
a maximum effort here in Indiana.
Q. Would you care to comment on the Time magazine poll?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the final poll comes in November, and there will be
ups and downs. And I'm sure, just as soon as some of these issues are laid before
Governor Carter, we will find some erosion of his support. Some of the positions
that he was forced to take in the last few days, I think will have some adverse
impact on his popularity. But the final test comes in November.
THE PRESIDENT'S DELEGATE SUPPORT
[2.] Q. Mr. President, you have said you expect to win in Kansas City. But
after Mr. Reagan swept all 96 delegates in Texas, will you have enough delegates
to lock up the nomination before you get to the convention, or will your getting
the nomination depend on the uncommitted delegates in Kansas City?
THE PRESIDENT. We certainly hope, and I personally believe, when we get to
Kansas City we will have a sufficient number of delegates to win the nomination.
Q. On the first ballot?
THE PRESIDENT. We believe so.
Q. And is that predicated or will you have it locked up before California, or
does it depend on California?
THE PRESIDENT. We will make that judgment when we get down to the last
primary.
ALABAMA, GEORGIA, AND INDIANA PRIMARY ELECTIONS
[3.] Q. Mr. President, you are on a couple other State primary ballots tomor-
row, in addition to Indiana. How do you evaluate your chances for victory in
the other two, in addition to Indiana, and what would be the impact of your
candidacy if you lost all three in one day?
THE PRESIDENT. We certainly would be very disappointed, but we don't think
we are going to lose all three. We think our chances are very good here in In-
diana, for the reasons that I have given: We have the full backing of the Gov-
1435
