[533]
May 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
see you your great, great mayor here in the city of Columbus. May I also
thank the Walnut Ridge Band-great music. You play that Victors very well.
In 1952 Winston Churchill, then a mere 77 years old, had been called into
the service of his country for a second term as Prime Minister of Great Britain.
Smiling somewhat impishly, he told the British Commons, and I quote,
"Everyone has his day, and some days last longer than others."
Today, I welcome this great opportunity to be a part of your annual Gover-
nor's Conference, and I congratulate Jim Rhodes for undertaking it back in
1968, a conference concerned with the many, many Americans whose days
have lasted longer than others.
The careers of Winston Churchill, as well as others who rose to prominence
in later years, reminds all of us-if we need to be reminded—that advancing
years need not mean a retreat from active, eventful, enjoyable life, nor should
advancing years be the certain barrier of poor health, meager income, or social
isolation.
The ancient philosophers taught us that the measure of a civilization's ad-
vancement and greatness can be found in its proper treatment of the elderly.
Let me say that here in Ohio you have demonstrated your concern in very
solid and very practical ways. This conference is but one example of your on-
going commitment. And I congratulate Jim and all those associated with
him for not only initiating it in 1968 but continuing it in his term at the present
time.
You all know, and so do those of us from outside of Ohio, that this State
has pioneered in providing senior citizens' centers that offer a very broad range
of services to the elderly. The two golden age villages constructed by your State
provide a model alternative to institutional care at a very reasonable cost.
Now, let me thank and commend Jim Rhodes for my participation in the
Golden Buckeye program, which was begun some 3 months ago. I'm told that
in the very short span of 90 days, 178,000 Ohioans have signed up, and now it is
178,001. [Laughter]
Obviously, I'm very proud of the fact that the Federal Government was able
to make a contribution to the Golden Buckeye program, making it a reality by
providing to the Governor's office for use as he saw fit-and he sure picked a
good program-through the comprehensive education and training legislation.
And I have been so impressed with the program as a whole.
When I get back to Washington, we're going to take a real good look to see if
we can't, on a national scale, implement something comparable to this. We have
to, of course, see what the law says, what the money is, but the concept is good
1738
