[640]
July 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
640
Veto of the Federal Coal Leasing Amendments Bill.
July 3, 1976
To the Senate of the United States:
I am returning to the Congress today without my approval S. 391, the Federal
Coal Leasing Amendments Act of 1975.
This bill addresses two essential issues: the form of Federal assistance for
communities affected by development of Federally-owned minerals, and the
way that Federal procedures for the leasing of coal should be modernized.
On the first of these issues, I am in total agreement with the Congress that
the Federal Government should provide assistance, and I concur in the form
of assistance adopted by the Congress in S. 391. Specifically, I pledge my support
for increasing the State share of Federal leasing revenues from 37½ percent to
50 percent.
Last January I proposed to the Congress the Federal Energy Impact As-
sistance Act to meet the same assistance problem, but in a different way. My
proposal called for a program of grants, loans and loan guarantees for commu-
nities in both coastal and inland States affected by development of Federal
energy resources such as gas, oil and coal.
The Congress has agreed with me that impact assistance in the form I pro-
posed should be provided for coastal States, and I hope to be able to sign ap-
propriate legislation in the near future.
However, in the case of States affected by S. 391-most of which are inland,
the Congress by overwhelming majority has voted to expand the more tradi-
tional sharing of Federal leasing revenues, raising the State share of those rev-
enues by one third. If S. 391 were limited to that provision, I would sign it.
Unfortunately, however, S. 391 is also littered with many other provisions
which would insert so many rigidities, complications, and burdensome regula-
tions into Federal leasing procedures that it would inhibit coal production on
Federal lands, probably raise prices for consumers, and ultimately delay our
achievement of energy independence.
I object in particular to the way that S. 391 restricts the flexibility of the Sec-
retary of the Interior in setting the terms of individual leases so that a variety of
conditions-physical, environmental and economic-can be taken into account.
S. 391 would require a minimum royalty of 121½ percent, more than is neces-
sary in all cases. S. 391 would also defer bonus payments-payments by the lessee
1958
