[442]
May 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
442
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session at a Farm Forum
in Omaha. May 7, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Senator Carl Curtis, Senator Roman Hruska, Sec-
retary Butz, ladies and gentlemen:
It's really great to be in Omaha, and I hope the feeling is mutual. After all, I
was born here.
Before getting to our question-and-answer session, let me make a few com-
ments on my administration's agricultural policy.
First of all, those policies have been successful. The average American farmer
has had a higher net income during the last 3 years than ever before in history,
and it will be just as good or better in 1976. Well, realized net income for the
average farmer in Nebraska was $4,041 in 1964; it was $17,510 in 1974. That's
a fourfold increase, and you earned every penny of it.
This very successful record has been achieved without a lot of bureaucratic
interference from Washington, D.C. I don't think that's just a coincidence. You
no longer have heavy farm surpluses hanging over the market, depressing your
prices, costing the taxpayers $1 million a day in storage fees.
Instead of storing grain in Government bins, we are selling it in record vol-
ume. Farm exports totaled $21,600 million in the last fiscal year. It will be
around $22 billion in this fiscal year.
We will export an estimated 3.1 billion bushels of wheat and feed grains in
this marketing year, an alltime record. We will export about 11, billion bushels
of corn, 1.2 billion bushels of wheat, 250 million bushels of grain sorghum, about
50 million bushels of barley and oats.
Within the last 2 weeks, we have announced the sale of almost 5 million
metric tons of corn and wheat to the Soviet Union, which brings the total sale
of grain to the Soviet Union for our 1975 crops to 16ยน; million metric tons.
Beyond that, we have already sold grain from the 1976 crop as a part of an
agreement my administration negotiated with the Soviet Union to ensure the
sale of at least 6 million metric tons of grain to the Soviet Union every year
through 1981. I hope we can sell them even more. This long term agreement
was a direct and beneficial result of the negotiations pursued by this administra-
tion last fall.
Last summer, a short Soviet crop brought the Soviet Union to the American
market for 375 million bushels of grain. Our wheat harvest was nearly com-
1492
