April 28
[380]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
on drug prevention treatment and rehabilitation this year than we spent just
7 years ago.
In addition to mandatory minimum sentences for drug traffickers and for
Federal crimes involving the use of dangerous weapons, I have recommended
to the Congress mandatory, minimum sentences for repeat offenders who com-
mit violent crimes and criminals guilty of grave offenses, such as aircraft hijack-
ing and kidnaping.
All of our efforts in these many, many areas have been aimed at ensuring
domestic tranquillity and the rule of law. But, let us remember that crime is
just one threat to the peace and to the security of all Americans.
At the Federal level, we must fulfill our obligation to provide national
security as well as personal security. Until we can achieve the rule of law in
the global sense, a strong military capability is absolutely essential.
The American people must be kept secure and free from the threat of outside
attack. This means we must maintain our high state of military preparedness,
and we will. We will continue to ensure that the United States of America is
unsurpassed in military capability.
Here in Texas you play a very, very important part in maintaining our na-
tional security. I was pleased to find out as we flew in here this morning that
out at Carswell Air Force Base, that wonderful installation with all those fine
people in the Air Force-men, women, uniformed as well as civilian personnel—
that they had a recent alert called by their higher ups, and they achieved a 100
percent readiness factor. They should be congratulated.
Your aerospace industry keeps us strong, helps us in the search for new ways
to deter aggression, and I salute you for it. The defense program that I am pro-
posing will mean that the United States of America will remain unsurpassed
for years and years to come if we keep the trend which I propose moving in
the years ahead.
I am glad to report to you that, since submitting the budget in January of
this year, we have finally convinced the Congress after 10 years where they
slashed, they cut, they reduced the budgets proposed by myself and my prede-
cessors, they are apparently going to go along with the strong defense budget
that I recommended for the next fiscal year. So, thank the Congress on this
occasion.
Talking about that budget, just about 3 weeks ago we laid the keel for the
first of our new class of nuclear submarines to be armed with the most accurate
submarine ballistic missiles in the world. The Trident missile fleet will be the
foundation for a formidable, technologically superior force through the 1980's.
1269
