May 8
[447]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
occupation—was because we have the right military and diplomatic policy. We
are at peace.
And let me give you another several points. I am the first President seeking
election or reelection in the last 20 years who can say that the United States is at
peace. So, when you put it all together, our policies diplomatically, militarily,
have been right. We have the peace, and we are going to keep it because we
are right.
And then if you will take the third word, trust. I think since I have been
President, August of '74, we have had an open, we have had a candid, we have
had a forthright administration. The door was never closed to any individual
or to any group, we have been frank and honest with the American people,
and the net result is there has been a restoration of confidence in the Presidency.
And that is something that was necessary, something we can build on.
So, on the basis of those three words, prosperity, peace, and trust, I think you
can talk to your friends and neighbors and say that Jerry Ford ought to be the
President of the United States for the next 4 years.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:05 p.m. in the Grand Ballroom East at the Lincoln Hilton Hotel.
447
Remarks at Dedication Ceremonies for the Harry S. Truman
Statue in Independence, Missouri. May 8, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Governor Bond, Margaret Truman Daniel, dis-
tinguished Members of the House of Representatives and the United States
Senate, Mayor King, Dr. Jonas, distinguished guests, friends, and admirers of
Harry Truman:
Surrounded as I am by old friends and neighbors of President Truman, it
would be hard and perhaps foolhardy for me to try to add anything to the
affectionate tributes already paid him as a public servant and as a great man,
but I have a few memories of my own, so let me try.
Mr. Truman, as it has been mentioned, was a great student of history, and he
particularly liked to talk about his predecessors and the qualities of each of
them that they brought to the Presidency. He was really an expert at it, allow-
ing for a little tilt toward Jefferson, Jackson, and his distant kinsman, John
Tyler.
The reason I know this goes back to my very first closeview meeting with
him, in fact, my very first meeting with anybody, and my first view of the White
1513
