[504]
May 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
The President. I am told that that's true. And if it is true, I'm very, very
pleased. We just got some word that the Vermont convention was held, and we
got all 18 in Vermont, which is better than we anticipated.
Q. Senator Howard Baker of Tennessee was with Ronald Reagan the other
night. What about that?
THE PRESIDENT. I think Senator Howard Baker, by having as his house guest
overnight my opponent, was just typical Tennessee courtesy. I'm told that Sena-
tor Baker wore a big Ford button all the time that he was being courteous and
thoughtful, like all Tennesseans are to anybody from out of State.
REPORTER. Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you all very much.
NOTE: The exchange began at 1:48 p.m. at Portland International Airport.
504
Remarks at a Republican Party-President Ford Committee
Reception in Portland.
May 22, 1976
THANK YOU very, very much, Craig. And I want to thank Vic and Wendell,
who have been with me and who are here.
It's been a great privilege and pleasure for me to stop in Medford. We had
a tremendous welcome and reception in their famous Library Park.
We have had an opportunity to say hello to some other fine people in Oregon.
And to come here to the PFC headquarters and to see this tremendous group,
believe me, I am absolutely confident that we're going to win in Oregon by a
good margin on Tuesday.
No candidate can win-I have been through 13 congressional campaigns, I am
in one now, I have gone to many States as we have gone down the road of these
various primaries-you can't win unless you have the kind of support that comes
from people like you.
I have noticed that we have done the best where we have had the best organi-
zation. And I can just feel from shaking hands with you, saying hello, hearing
about you from others, that you are tremendous.
And so, I thank all of you. And let me say, for the work that you have done
and the fact that we are going to win in Kansas City and win in November, I
pledge to you that I will not let you down for the next 4 years.
I was so pleased that Betty came out here a week or so ago. I send her out
ahead of me so she can get my votes up to her polls. [Laughter] And then Steve
1642
