May 3
[417]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
year the Congress cut military appropriations by $50 billion. They cut last
year from the budget that I submitted, which was the highest military budget
in the history of the United States, Congress cut $7 billion.
What does that mean? That means that if we were predicating a base opera-
tion or a military installation operation on $100 billion and they cut it $7 billion-
plus, we have to find some way to make some adjustments. So, Congress, if there
are cutbacks in military installations, Congress is a substantial, if not the major,
contributor to those reductions. And so, I would urge you take a look how your
Senators and Congressmen voted and find out whether they voted to cut the
defense appropriations.
We are trying right now to convince the Congress they should not make
those kind of reductions in the budget that I submitted in January. We are
making some headway. I think they are finally getting the word, but some of
them ought to answer to you and others in that area because if you have a
cutback, they—the Congress-could be a major contributor to that situation.
Q. Thank you, Mr. President. I'm Carolyn Lickerman, a member of the
City Council in Columbus, Indiana. And we are quickly running out of our
nonrenewable fossil fuels, and we have about 25 years to find an alternate
energy source, and I don't feel that we are facing up to this problem. And I
wondered what is being done and what we can do?
THE PRESIDENT. A year ago in January I submitted to the Congress a
comprehensive energy program which was predicated on two concepts. One,
we had to stimulate conservation of energy in this country, and I am encouraged
to read a report that came across my desk a few weeks ago that showed that
overall we saved between 3 and 4 percent in the conservation of the use of
energy last year. But that isn't enough. We have to also stimulate more
production of domestic energy sources. I think we have got to stimulate more
exploration and drilling of domestic oil. I think we have got to do the same
in natural gas. You can't do it as long as you have the heavy hand of govern-
ment regulation on the industry. People are not going to make any investments.
So, what I have tried to do is to get the Congress to decontrol gas and oil
so we can do more domestically. And let me tell you why. When I became
President, we were importing roughly 31 percent of our total use of oil in this
country, petroleum. Today, we are now importing from foreign sources 40
percent or more of our total petroleum use in this country.
We have got to do more to stimulate domestic production or we will be at
the control, or we will be controlled by foreign oil importers, and we don't
want that.
1433
