[337]
April 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
Second, the bill contemplates unilateral enforcement of a prohibition on
foreign fishing for native anadromous species, such as salmon, seaward of the
200-mile zone. Enforcement of such a provision, absent bilateral or multilateral
agreement, would be contrary to the sound precepts of international
jurisprudence;
Third, the enforcement provisions of H.R. 200 dealing with the seizure of
unauthorized fishing vessels lack adequate assurances of reciprocity in keeping
with the tenets of international law; and
Fourth, the measure purports to encroach upon the exclusive province of the
Executive relative to matters under international negotiations.
Although these matters are of major importance, I am hopeful they can be
resolved by responsible administrative action and, if necessary, by curative leg-
islation. Accordingly, I am instructing the Secretary of State to lead admin-
istration efforts toward their effective resolution.
NOTE As enacted, H.R. 200 is Public Law 94-265 (90 Stat 331.
338
Remarks Upon Signing Bills Commemorating the Birth of
Thomas Jefferson. April 13, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Secretary Kleppe. Captain Barnes, distinguished
guests-including the fine choir from the College of William and Mary, Thomas
Jefferson's alma mater-ladies and gentlemen:
Today we pay tribute to Thomas Jefferson. Two hundred years of American
history have produced no man whose achievements are better known. In his
own epitaph he cited just three-author of the Declaration of American Inde-
pendence, author of the Statute of Virginia for Religious Freedom, and father
of the University of Virginia.
Had those been only his basic accomplishments, he would have earned his
place in history and our unyielding gratitude. But we know Jefferson in other
ways as well. We know the character of the man who embodied our national
heritage by encompassing the spirit of pioneer and aristocrat, American and
world citizen, the values of nature and the values of civilization.
In politics, we know him as a lawyer and as a legislator, as a member of the
Continental Congress, Ambassador to France, our Nation's third President.
and its first Secretary of State. In our national life, we know him as a scientist
and agronomist, as an artist, architect, and inventor.
1118
