[435]
May 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
ing that we had last year, there had been a very difficult time-difficult for me,
extremely difficult for the country as a whole. But it did bring about, I believe,
in that period of time, a restoration of confidence, openness, candor, and faith in
the White House.
We tried to do it then, as we had tried to do it for 25 years in the Congress-
of being frank and candid, forthright, not always agreeing with everybody, but
everybody had their day in court, and everyone felt when they left that their
point of view had been expressed. And I would do my very best to maintain an
objective point of view.
So, that first 12 months between Vice President and President was a tough
time, but I believe we came through that with progress, with headway.
And then last year, you know, we met over at Tayloe House. The country
was in pretty bad shape. If you will recollect, as I have on occasion, we were at
the depths of a recession, the worst recession in 40 years in this country. We had
many serious problems. The rate of inflation was still too high. Unemployment
in our own great State of Michigan had plummeted. The automobile industry
was in serious condition. There was great despair in many parts of the country,
and Michigan was more heavily hit than most States.
But it's nice to be here with all of you this year, where I keep reading about
how things have changed in Michigan. The automobile industry is having one
of its top years, either third or fourth in the history of the industry, with every
week or every reporting time the production schedules of the automobile indus-
try going up, with a resurgence of public confidence. So, it's a much better
atmosphere in which I am your guest tonight than it was a year ago.
Let me say without any hesitation or qualification, as good as we think it is,
it's not good enough. And when you come down here a year from now, I
expect to be able to invite you to the White House, and we can have the 21st or
22d reunion in the East Room or the Red Room or the Blue Room or the State
Dining Room. But I think it would be a great place to have a wonderful
reunion and an opportunity for us to let you make the presentation to your
second honoree, whom I will be glad to honor with best wishes from the Presi-
dent of the United States for the next 4 years.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:27 pm. in the Dolley
Madison Room at the Madison Hotel In his open-
ing remarks, he referred to Kenneth MacDonald,
1975 president, and O. T. (Tony) Gaston, present
president, Michigan. Vossiation of Broadcasters
The association presented the President with the
first annual Outstanding Citizen Michigan Awar
1480
