June 30
[624]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
participation in this historic observance. I call upon all Americans, here and
abroad, including all United States flag ships at sea, to join in this salute.
As the bells ring in our third century, as millions of free men and women
pray, let every American resolve that this Nation, under God, will meet the
future with the same courage and dedication Americans showed the world two
centuries ago. In perpetuation of the joyous ringing of the Liberty Bell in Phila-
delphia, let us again "Proclaim Liberty throughout all the Land unto all the In-
habitants thereof."
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-ninth day
of June in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred seventy-six, and of the In-
dependence of the United States of America the two hundredth.
NOTE: The full text of this proclamation is in-
cluded as an example of the proclamations the
GERALD R. FORD
President issued. All the proclamations issued by
the President in 1976 are listed in Appendix B.
624
Remarks Upon Accepting Japan's Bicentennial Gift to the
United States. June 30, 1976
Prime Minister Miki, distinguished Japanese guests, ladies and gentlemen:
Let me express to you, Mr. Prime Minister, the deep gratitude of the American
people for this very, very generous gift. It is yet another expression of the good
relations that the American people have with the Japanese people, the excellent
relations that your Government has with our Government.
This is a generous gift in money, but it is also a deeper expression of our rela-
tionship between our two peoples. As Mr. Stevens has said, this gift will permit
the completion of the Kennedy Center. The Kennedy Center is the focal point
in the United States for cultural development, cultural performances. And we,
of course, are most anxious, as Mr. Stevens said, that when the studio center is
completed that it will be possible to have the whole center display the tremendous
cultural background and the terrific artistry that comes from the people of
Japan.
Again, I thank you and I thank the people of Japan on behalf of the Ameri-
can people.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:33 a.m. in the Rose
Garden at the White House.
Participating in the presentation ceremony were
Prime Minister Takeo Miki of Japan, Mitsunori
Ueki, Japanese Minister of State, and Roger L.
Stevens, chairman of the board of trustees of the
John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts.
Their remarks are printed in the Weekly Compila-
tion of Presidential Documents (vol. 12, p. 1099).
1929
