[576]
June 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
Q. Do you yourself regret your earlier support for Vietnam now, in view of
your statement?
THE PRESIDENT. That is not an issue. The war is over, settled.
Q. Would you commit troops to Philadelphia if—[laughter|—your Attorney
General recommended it and if Governor Shapp concurred with Mayor Rizzo
that he could not keep order on Independence Day?
The PRESIDENT. If my advisers, after analyzing Mayor Rizzo's request, rec-
ommended to me that in the best interests of security and safety of the public
that some U.S. military forces be in Philadelphia on July 4, of course I will do
it. But I have not gotten that recommendation yet. When I get back and have
a chance to get their recommendation, we will make a decision. But I think
it would be the responsible thing if on the basis of the request the responsible
people said it was in the best interest of the situation in Philadelphia.
Q. Is it really that bad? Have you looked in—
THE PRESIDENT. I don't know. I have to wait until I get some advice from
people who have looked into it. The mayor says it is bad, and I will wait and
see what the others say.
Q. Doesn't the Government have to have the word of the Governor that
he can't quell—I mean, don't you have to go in on only an indirect—
THE PRESIDENT. Helen [Helen Thomas, United Press International], all I
am saying is when we get back and make a thorough investigation of the
mayor's request, if it is justified, we will help.
Q. Mr. President, what are the prospects of another grain embargo, par-
ticularly concerning this year's crop?
THE PRESIDENT. Zero.
Q. Can you expand on that, please?
THE PRESIDENT. We have got a great carryover of American wheat and corn
and soybeans. We have got a good wheat crop in prospect. We have got excellent
planting conditions for corn. We expect to have a good corn crop, a good
wheat crop. So when you have that, plus our carryover, there is no prospect, as I
see it, zero prospect of any grain embargo in 1976.
Q. How will you try to convert the uncommitted delegates between now and
the convention?
The PRESIDENT. By pointing out the record that I have talked about. I think
they're interested in winning. They're not interested in nominating a candidate
that's not going to win. That does not make a very happy trip to Kansas City
or a very happy November 3. They want a candidate who can win, and they
1838
