April 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
[393]
uncertain, as well as many Americans, about the future of this country—and we
have reestablished the best relationship that this country has ever had with
Japan, with the NATO countries in Western Europe. We have made more prog-
ress in the Middle East under this administration in settling the volatile, con-
troversial, complex problems in that area, where we have been able to get
Arabs on the one hand and Israelis on the other, who have been fighting four
or five wars in the last quarter of a century—we have been able to get Egypt
and Israel to sit down and settle a Sinai II agreement.
When I look around the world and see the progress we have made with
allies, where we are trusted and where our adversaries respect us and where
we have peace and the capability to keep it, if I were a young person, that is the
kind of a record that would appeal to me. I hope it does.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:52 p.m. in Waco
Hall. In his opening remarks, he referred to Dr.
Abner V. McCall, president, and Jay Woolf, student
body president, Baylor University.
393
Remarks at the Waco Suspension Bridge in Waco, Texas.
April 29, 1976
Thank you very much, Mayor Smith, Senator John Tower, Mr. Conger, all of
you wonderful people of Waco:
Let me express my appreciation for the opportunity to be here on this
very historic occasion and to see so many friendly and hospitable faces. It's just
a great occasion, despite this Michigan weather-not Texas weather.
But it's nice to be here. And I am very proud of the fact that you in this
great community have taken this fantastic bridge that I read a bit about before
I got here—completed in 1870, a tremendous engineering project over 100 years
ago—and to see it as we drove up and to be here as we stand now, I think, is a
tribute to your forefathers, their vision, their foresight to have something
like this over this great river, the Brazos River.
But now, let me say I want to compliment every one of you, because by seeing
the beauty of this bridge and preserving it for future generations, making it a
part of this great complex, you're developing out here—Indian Center Park,
is it?—I think this generation of leaders, this generation of citizens in Waco
deserve also congratulations and commendation.
1335
