[482]
May 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
482
Remarks at a President Ford Committee Reception in Louisville.
May 14, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Thruston Morton, Ambassador John Sherman
Cooper, my former colleague in the House of Representatives. Tim Lee Carter.
these wonderful party people and President Ford leaders, and all of you won-
derful people here in Kentucky:
I just want to thank you very, very much for the warm reception. I'm deeply
grateful.
As we were flying in, I was trying to recollect how many times I have been
in Louisville and Kentucky, whether it was helping to campaign for another
candidate for Congress or a Member of the Senate or whether it was a guber-
natorial candidate or just down here to raise money for the Republican Party,
but it has been a good many times. And the net result is I think I have a few
friends in the State of Kentucky and the Republican Party.
I know with all of you people out here who can do a job in the Third Dis-
trict and throughout the State of Kentucky, boy, if Thruston Morton says we
can win here in Kentucky, I believe him, and we can.
But let me talk for just a minute, if I might, about why I think we ought to
win. Thruston touched on several of the points, but I like to simplify it and
say when you look at the record, it is substantively good, and it has been good
for America and 215 million other Americans.
Peace, prosperity, trust-that is what the Ford record is for 21 months. If
you go back to August of 1974, you will recall that there were many, many
people throughout the world-many nations, many leaders, our allies-who
were uncertain as to what the new administration would do. John Sherman
Cooper, from his long experience in not only political life but in diplomatic
circles, could tell you that our friends around the world were uncertain. They
didn't know just what the policy of the new administration would be. They
didn't know how to react and, of course, our adversaries were also uncertain.
But if you look at the record for the last 21 months, you will find that we have
strengthened our alliances in Western Europe. NATO today, with the United
States playing a very major role, is in the best shape it has ever been, and the
net result is we are going to keep peace in Western Europe.
Or if you go to the Middle East, in the 21 months since I have been Presi-
dent, we made additional progress, significant progress towards a permanent,
1588
