[392]
April 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
flation was 12 to 14 percent. The first 3 months of 1976, on an annualized basis,
the rate of inflation for this country was under 3 percent. That's a 75-percent cut-
back in the rate of inflation, and I think we should be darn proud of it.
I can vividly recall last April when my good friend Senator Hubert Hum-
phrey was saying we're on the brink of a depression and when George Meany
was saying there would be 10 million unemployed in this country, but we didn't
panic. Unemployment went to 8.9 percent. It got up to almost 8 million Ameri-
cans. But you know, since 8.9 percent we're now down to 7.5 percent, and the
most important thing you are interested in is jobs.
Now, what has happened in this 12-month span? From last April to the end
of March this year, we have increased 2,600,000 jobs in the United States, and
we have reached the total of 86,700,000 jobs. More people were employed in the
United States in March of this year than in any time in the history of the United
States. So, when you graduate, you are going to have a lot better opportunity to
get a job in June than you did last June.
REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL NOMINEE
[2.] Q. Mr. President, I'd like to ask you this question, please, sir. You are
currently leading Governor Reagan in the contest for the Republican Presidential
nomination. In the event that Governor Reagan should win the Texas primary
and then go on to win the Republican nomination, would you, as a loyal
Republican, support Governor Reagan for the Presidency?
THE PRESIDENT. First, I don't expect him to win in Texas, and I don't—
[laughter]-it is going to be close, but I'm getting more and more optimistic.
And I certainly don't expect him to win in Kansas City, so I don't think I
have to worry about the question that you asked. [Laughter]
REPUBLICAN VICE-PRESIDENTIAL NOMINEE
[3.] Q. Mr. President, my question concerns the '76 campaign. When you
were campaigning in the Massachusetts primary, you hinted that Massachusetts'
Senator Edward Brooke would be considered for the Vice-Presidential nomina-
tion. Now that you are campaigning in Texas, you have hinted that John
Connally might be your choice. [Laughter]
My question is, who do you plan to suggest as your choice in the Indiana
primary? [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. In Texas I have suggested that both Senator John Tower
and John Connally would be good possibilities. [Laughter] But, let me say the
Republican Party has a wealth of outstanding talent, some in the United States
1
1328
