[444]
May 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
duces enough food to feed 50 people, both here as well as abroad. And let us
never forget the great reservoir of spiritual and moral strength that we have in
this country, the American character that has never known the meaning of the
word "retreat."
After the First World War, President Woodrow Wilson was asked why
American soldiers had been so successful on the battlefields of Europe. "I will
tell you," he said, "that war was won by the American spirit." You know what
one of our American wits said, that it only took half as long to train an Ameri-
can army as any other because you had to train them to go only one way.
There is a second lesson to be learned from these last years as well. It struck
me with a very special force since I became your President. The fact is that
every President of the United States in modern times is besieged with requests
and pleas to intervene and to solve almost every problem confronting our citi-
zenry. As soon as serious difficulties arise, a cry seems to go up that the Federal
Government should rush to the rescue with more programs, more spending,
more regulation, anything so long as the pain is eased and the problems post-
poned to another day.
I have been raised in a different school, a school that has its home out here in
the Great Plains. It is a school that says that the American people are better
equipped to solve many of their own problems than is the Government in Wash-
ington. It is a school that says government has already grown to an ominous size
and already interferes far too much in the lives of its citizens. It is a school that
says when people gain the belief that government has every answer, they lose
that necessary belief in themselves.
There in Washington, as inflation and unemployment mounted in late 1974
and early 1975, there were rising pressures for the President and the Congress to
intervene with new, massive programs. "Start spending more money," we were
urged by many. "Let's have higher and higher budgets, higher and higher
deficits, more and more debt, and then if that only produces more inflation, we
can put the economy in a new straitjacket of wage and price controls." But we
weren't prepared to go down that road again. We had seen its results too many
times before.
This time, with the stalwart help of your congressional delegation, we resisted
that temptation to let the government solve our economic problems. Instead,
we entrusted the primary responsibility to the people themselves and to the great
free enterprise system that is the mainspring of our society. Today the results
are self-evident. The American recovery is moving along rapidly and with
greater vitality than any other economy throughout the world. While the eco-
1508
