May 14
[476]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
to defend freedom and to maintain a foundation of strength on which to
build a better and a safer world.
But our strength does not rest in our military power alone. Our major source
of strength is the productivity and the success of the American farmer who,
in the last 3 years, has enjoyed his highest net income in our Nation's history
and whose exports have hit high, high records. Those exports have helped to
put America back on the road to prosperity, and the farmer deserves the thanks
of every American in every one of our States. That just doesn't mean the big
farm operator; it means the small family farmer right here in east Tennessee,
and I thank you all.
To preserve that family farm and other family enterprises, I have proposed
to the Congress raising the estate tax exemption from $60,000 to $150,000. In
addition, I have proposed stretching out those payments over a 25-year period
at low-interest rates and, most importantly, exempting from taxation the
transfer of property between husband and wife.
I want to see the family enterprises stay in the family rather than be sacrificed
to pay the Federal tax collector. The family tradition, like the American
tradition, is one of security, one of rich heritage, of pride and hope for the future.
There have now been eight generations of independent Americans, each one
working, planning, and praying that life would be even better for the next
generation than for theirs. In a very special sense, I want to continue as President
because I want this generation of Americans to leave a better America to the
next generation. I want to ensure that realistic, responsible policies are right for
America, that have been proven right over the last 21 months, and to make
sure that they continue. I want to maintain that peace that we now enjoy, to
secure that peace through strength, and to make certain that the legacy of
peace continues for our children as well as our grandchildren. I want to
continue the policies of reliance on the private economy, of cutting taxes, and
bureaucracies, and removing useless regulations and wasteful spending.
These policies have brought us back from the depths of a recession to a
sustained recovery, and they can help to ensure that runaway inflation never
again robs us or our loved ones of the rewards of honest work and lifetime
savings.
Finally, I want to finish the most important job that I have begun—the
restoration of faith and trust in the Presidency itself. The great institutions
of government crafted with such great care by our Founding Fathers have
their foundations in the people's trust. In the past 21 months, the foundation
has been strengthened rather than shaken, and we will strengthen it more in
1575
