May 26
[535]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
dered what, beyond the Esch amendment and what is spelled out in the law and
what the courts have already examined, what possibly could be an alternative
that would hold up in the courts? What are the sorts of things that you are
looking at?
The President. When the proper time comes, Mr. Schieffer [Bob Schieffer,
CBS News], we will reveal what Secretary Mathews has recommended to me
and the options that I have selected. I think there are some possibilities, but I
think it is premature until I have made the final decision to indicate what he has
thought might be an improvement over the way we have been handling the
situation in the past.
Q. Is it fair to say, though, Mr. President, that this is going to require some
major legislative work, major changes in the law?
The President. Not necessarily, not major legislative changes. It can have
some legislative impact, but it is also what we can do administratively.
Q. Why not just go for a constitutional amendment against forced busing?
THE PRESIDENT. I think that is too inflexible. And the facts of life are that
that constitutional amendment has not gotten, or it can't possibly get a two-
thirds vote in either the House or the Senate, and it certainly cannot be approved
by 75 percent of the States.
So, anybody who talks about a constitutional amendment is not being fair
and square with the American people because no Congress that I have seen—
and this one is a very liberal one—has done anything to get it to the floor of
the House or even to the floor of the Senate, as I recollect.
So, when you talk about a constitutional amendment, you are kidding the
American people, and anybody who has been in Congress knows that.
Q. I have some more questions.
THE PRESIDENT. Go ahead.
Q. At least that is saying what you are for. What I am wondering is, why
you can't give us a few hints about what the alternatives are that you think will
solve the problems?
THE PRESIDENT. At the proper time, Mr. Schieffer, Secretary Mathews will
have the option paper before me, and I will be glad to review it and make
it public at that time.
SUPPORT FOR PRESIDENT FORD FROM DEMOCRATS AND INDEPENDENTS
[14.] Q. Mr. President, since Governors Reagan, Carter, and Wallace have
all conducted, to some degree, an anti-Washington campaign, should you be
the nominee and Governor Carter be the Democratic nominee, how do you
1753
