April 30
[401]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Thank you very, very much. Now I would be delighted to answer your
questions.
QUESTIONS
ENERGY EFFICIENCY STANDARDS FOR AUTOMOBILES
[1.] Q. Mr. President, I would like to ask a question about our energy prob-
lem. As you know, measures directed toward energy conservation and energy
independence have not, on the whole, been very successful, and we are today im-
porting more oil than prior to the oil boycott.
Our present energy conservation policy is largely an indirect one, and lately
an increasing number of people have been calling for a more direct and more
effective policy, namely, legislation to prohibit the manufacture or importation
of automobiles weighing over a certain amount—say, 2,000 or 3,000 pounds—
and with engines which are larger than a certain size—say, 150 to 200 cubic
inches. How do you feel about such direct and certainly very effective measures?
THE PRESIDENT. First, let me say, to verify what you have said, we are import-
ing more foreign oil today than we did prior to the October war in the Middle
East. At that time, we were importing about 30 or 31 percent of our total oil
used. Today, we are importing 40 to 41 percent, and it is going up as our do-
mestic production goes down.
Now, the specific question you ask—should we ban the importation of foreign
automobiles that would in effect use lesser amounts of gasoline per mile—I think
what we should do and what we are trying to do and what we are being success-
ful in doing is forcing our American automobile producers to increase their gaso-
line utilization efficiency. As a matter of fact, when you compare the 1975 cars
over the 1974 cars, they increased the efficiency about, as I recall, 8 to 9 percent,
and then when they went to the 1976 models, which you're buying at the present
time, they increased that efficiency over the 1975 by about 13 percent. So, the
American automobile manufacturers are increasing their efficiency, which means
more miles per gallon.
I think that any imported car—any imported car—must meet the same effi-
ciency standards that we established for our American manufactured cars, and
if they do, I don't think we should arbitrarily exclude them from American
customers here in the United States. But they must meet those standards that
our people have to meet. And if you will recollect, the energy bill that was
passed in 1974, as I recollect, did mandate that the automobile industry in a
period of 5 years had to increase its efficiency by 40 percent.
1367
