[579]
June 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
579
Remarks in Findlay, Ohio. June 7, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Tenny Guyer, Governor Jim Rhodes, Senator
Bob Taft, Congressman Del Latta, my old and very dear friend, your former
Congressman Jack Betts, your good mayor, distinguished guests, and all of the
wonderful people here in Flag City:
I love you. I understand that is the biggest Bicentennial flag ever made.
Congratulations.
But you know, I would like to express my appreciation also to a couple of
wonderful wives of two fine Members of Congress with whom I served-well,
let's see, there is Martha Betts and Mac Guyer. I ought to thank them, too.
This has been a wonderful day in Ohio. We started in Cincinnati this morning.
This crowd is fantastic, and I thank you from the bottom of my heart. It gives
me a chance to look each and every one of your right in the eye and tell you
why I think tomorrow's election is vitally important and why you ought to
go out and vote for Jerry Ford in tomorrow's election.
In August of 1974 when I became President of the United States, this country
was in trouble. The American people had gone through a difficult time. There
had been a great loss of trust and confidence in the White House itself. The
United States was going through an economic disaster. Inflation was over 12
percent. Unemployment was beginning to rise. Employment was going down.
Taxes were too high. Our allies abroad were uncertain as to what the United
States would do, whether the American people and this government had the
will and the resolution to meet the challenges. Our adversaries around the
world were wondering whether they should be tempted to take advantage of
this unfortunate situation.
I became President in probably as difficult a time as any President ever
assumed that great office. We started out first recognizing that we had to
achieve peace, we had to turn the economy around, and we had to restore trust
and confidence in the White House itself. So, right from the very first day,
your President decided he would be open, he would be candid, he would be
forthright, he would be straightforward with the American people. Your
President decided he would not promise anything more than he could produce
and he would produce everything that he promised, and he has.
Then we had the problem of inflation, growing unemployment, fewer jobs,
1844
