April 10
[328]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
We were talking on the way out from Dallas that I was here in El Paso in
1969 and made a speech on behalf of the Republican Party trying to raise some
money for the congressional candidate, as I recall the State ticket. And I had a
wonderful experience; a great opportunity to meet, I am sure, some of you at
that time.
I am honored and privileged to be back here to speak—as I did to the grain
organization a few minutes ago—to have an opportunity to shake hands and
speak to all of you here and then to participate in a memorial ceremony for some
Vietnam veterans.
This is a great opportunity for me because I know that you can, as John indi-
cated, with the effort that can come out of this group, elect those four delegates to
the national convention in Kansas City. We start out, I think, in Texas an under-
dog, but we have got a great leader in Senator John Tower. And as I travel
around, I am convinced we have got a real fine organization. And I believe we
have got the right policies for America both at home and abroad. And with that
combination, we are going to win.
I know, as many of you man the phone banks or talk to your friends or discuss
with some of our adversaries, you want some talking points that will give you
the kind of convincing ammunition so that we can persuade people to support
our delegates that are on the ballot.
Let me give you very quickly some things that have helped Betty and me as
we have gone to New Hampshire, to Florida, to other States and volunteered for
a limited period of time to call people. The things that seem to have an impact
are: Number one, when I became President 20 months ago, we were having
inflation at the rate of 12 percent or more. Today it is 6 percent or less. That is a
lot of progress. It is not enough, but the trend is going down and we are going
to keep it going down. Then the question arises about unemployment. I had no
longer been President than 30 days or more when we were capitulated into the
worst economic recession that this country has had in 40 years. Of course, the
seeds for it had been planted before. But all of a sudden unemployment soared
and employment plummeted, and the net result was some people got panicky.
But I decided that the right course of action for this country was not to load
up the Federal payroll, but to try and create an economic climate in this country
so that the jobs that had been lost could be regained in the private sector under
our free enterprise system, and it is working.
Here are a few statistics that might be helpful. In the month of March of this
year, we regained 375,000 new jobs in America. Since last May, we have regained
2,600,000 jobs. From the depth of the recession to the month of March, and in
1091
