May 7
[440]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
great State of Nebraska. The new East Tower which will rise from this site
will be more than an institution of health care. It will be an inspiration to all
of the citizens of Omaha. It will symbolize your strength, your compassion,
your sophistication, and your rising ambition. In more practical terms, it will
serve your community with nursing care of the very highest quality for older
citizens of the Omaha area.
All of us know that it takes money, and lots of it, to build a facility like
the East Tower—money to maintain it, money to staff it, money to provide the
professional care that is needed so much. As a result, medical care, especially
for the elderly, can be a very expensive proposition. If an older person has to
stay in a hospital or a nursing home or-under doctor's orders-for an extended
period of time, it can put an incredible strain on lifetime savings and on the
peace of mind of the patient and the loved ones alike. Being in poor health for
a long time is bad enough without having to worry about the ruinous economic
effect of long term illness.
I have suggested a plan to ensure that older Americans will receive medical
and hospital care they need without going broke in the process. Under this
suggestion, Medicare patients in hospitals or nursing homes would never have
to pay more than $500 a year for medical care or 10 percent of their total
hospital bills, whichever is less. For covered doctors' services, the maximum
would be $250 or 20 percent of the total, whichever is less. Medicare would
pay the rest, whether it costs $1,000 or $10,000 or $500,000.
I want to see America's older citizens live their lives in dignity and in
security and in the very best possible care. So do the Sisters of Mercy, who have
given more than a century of service to the sick and to the disabled in America.
They have shown countless times that the quality of mercy blesses both those
who receive it and those who give it.
The rebuilding of your city and the expansion of Archbishop Bergan-Mercy
Hospital exemplifies another important trait that I am proud of as an Ameri-
can—our continuing faith in our American way of life.
Fears of some of the problems we have had in the last year provided another
challenge. As we have seen so often in the history of our Nation, the threat
of adversity merely uncovered new reservoirs of strength and resourcefulness.
You have not only repaired the damage following a disaster, you have built
a newer and better facility for a newer and better community.
The feeling of confidence in the future that I see being rekindled all across
America is no better demonstrated than right here in Omaha, on this site,
1489
