[496]
May 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
496
Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual Report of the
National Heart and Lung Advisory Council. May 19, 1976
To the Congress of the United States:
Enclosed is the "Third Report of the National Heart and Lung Advisory
Council," prepared in accordance with the requirement of section 418(b)(2) of
the Public Health Service Act.
The National Heart and Lung Advisory Council has again prepared a thought-
ful Report that addresses a number of important research policy questions.
With regard to the recommendations and conclusions in the Council's Report,
some recommendations are in accord with the Administration's views (e.g., the
need for evaluation of pilot programs) and other recommendations are at vari-
ance with Administration policy (e.g., the budget recommendation and recom-
mendations dependent on the Council's recommended budget).
The Council recommended funding levels without full knowledge of the
competing needs of other high priority programs. Therefore, it is not surprising
that the budget recommendations of the Council considerably exceed those of
the President's 1977 Budget, which must take fiscal constraints and competing
national needs into consideration. It should be noted that the budget for the
National Heart and Lung Institute has increased greatly in recent years: from
$195 million in 1971 to a potential of $370 million in 1976.
In addition, these fiscal concerns were recognized in H.R. 7988, “Health Re-
search and Health Services Amendments of 1976", which I recently signed into
law. The Congress authorized appropriations at a considerably lower level for
FY 1977 than was recommended by the Council.
The Administration recognizes the accomplishments of the National Pro-
gram as outlined in the Council's Report, and continues to view the heart, blood
vessel, lung, and blood program as an area of high priority. The Report of
the Council is being carefully studied and evaluated. I am forwarding the Re-
port so that it is available to the Congress for its deliberations.
The White House,
May 19, 1976.
NOTE: The report. prepared by the Department of
Health, Education, and Welfare, is entitled "Na-
tional Heart, Blood Vessel, Lung, and Blood Pro-
GERALD R. FORD
gram-Third Report of the National Heart and
Lung Advisory Council" (19 pp.).
1628
