[321]
April 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
is better already. So, my judgment is that by the end of this calendar year, the
Consumer Price Index rate of increase will be under 6 percent. And that will be
a lot of progress from what it was in 1974. It was over 12 percent.
STANDARDS OF LIVING FOR FUTURE GENERATIONS
[7.] Q. Mr. President, if you will allow me a presumptuous question?
THE PRESIDENT, Sure.
Q. The population of the world is said to have doubled in the last 50 years, and
there are widespread rumors of widespread shortage. As the President of the
United States, what type of lifestyle or standard of living do you anticipate for
our grandchildren?
THE PRESIDENT. It was announced just a week or two ago that we had passed
the 4 billion mark in world population. And the rate of growth in population
in many of the underdeveloped countries is far higher than our own.
It's my feeling that if we follow the right policies domestically, and we coordi-
nate our efforts with our allies, and we at the same time are able to deal at arms
length with adversaries-I am talking about economic policy-it's my judgment
that our grandchildren will have a better life than most of us in this room have
had.
I am an optimist about it. I believe between science and all of the other skills
that have been developed in recent years as to productivity in agriculture, in-
creased industrial capacity and productivity, plus the educational opportunities,
communication benefits, there is no reason in the world why the United States
and the world as a whole shouldn't be infinitely better off.
And I start from that assumption. If you start from the assumption it's going
to be worse, I think you have the wrong perspective. I think when you look at
all the things that can and ought to happen, if you have the right leadership, I
know it's going to happen, and our grandchildren will be better off than we.
DEREGULATION OF NATURAL GAS
[8.] Q. Mr. President, I am a producer of natural gas from the Fort Worth
Basin, that is west of here. And my question would be, how would you, from
your view, perceive the future of the controls the Government has over the
natural gas industry?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, in January of 1975, among other things, I recommended
to the Congress that they deregulate natural gas across the board. We worked
very hard, and finally the Senate passed the Bentsen Pearson Act, which was
1048
