[320]
April 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
really have no way of knowing what their plans might be. We can only count
on ours.
Thank you all very, very much. It is nice to see you all.
NOTE: The exchange began at 4.30 p.m. at Love Field
321
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session at Southern
Methodist University in Dallas. April 9, 1976
Thank you very much, Jim. Senator John Tower, Mayor Harrison, Dean Cole-
man, Mr. Cox, Mr. Tatum, Dr. Grayson, Mr. Crow, fellow Mustangs and guests:
Thank you very much. That concludes my speech. [Laughter|
Obviously, I am delighted to have an opportunity to address this forum of the
SMU School of Business Management and distinguished members of the busi-
ness community in Dallas.
I do have a wonderful recollection of the opportunity to be at Moody Coliseum
last September to recognize SMU's 60th anniversary. I was highly honored to re-
ceive an honorary doctor of law degree, so I do feel a special affinity for, and deep
belief concerning, SMU.
As you know, Jim Zumberg is an old and very dear friend of mine. He used to
be a constituent of mine in a more limited sense. He was the original president
and founder, really, of Grand Valley College, which is now a school of some
8,000. But he took it from scratch, and made it into an outstanding educational
institution. And I know he will continue in that same leadership capacity here
in your community.
Jim, it's great to see you again.
At this time a year ago, as many of you will remember, America was at
the bottom of its worst recession in 40 years. But what you may not recall is
some of the most gloomy predictions that some of our very distinguished Ameri-
cans were making about our economy at that time.
George Meany, for example, said we were sure to reach a 10 percent un-
employment by summer. My good friend, Hubert Humphrey, said unless we
took some drastic actions within 60 to 90 days, we would be approaching the
dimensions of a depression. We heard some of America's most respected econ-
omists calling for extensive wage and price controls. We heard some of
'AFL-CIO president.
1040
