[377]
April 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
ducing inflation and adding to employment. And let me say that those policies
that we are undertaking will continue in the future.
Some allegations have been made by people who don't know the record
that President Ford can't be decisive. Let me give you a few illustrations.
Number one, in dealing with the Congress where there is a Democratic
majority, 2 to 1, I vetoed 48 bills. Thirty-nine have been sustained by the
House and or the Senate, and the net result is we have saved $13 billion as far
as the Federal Treasury is concerned, and that is progress. And I think that's
courageous, that's correct action.
But let's take some other areas where controversy swirled at the time we were
faced in the Oval Office with the question whether to sign a bill or to veto a
bill. One of the most controversial bills that came on my desk in this 20-, 21-
month period was the so-called common situs picketing bill. The people who
were for it were arguing very persuasively; the people who were against it were
arguing very persuasively. But I decided that in the national interest it should
be vetoed, and it was vetoed.
And then sometimes people say that President Ford won't face up to an issue.
that he won't be decisive. Well, let me just let your memory go back to some
time in May of 1975. We were faced with the decision as to whether or not we
should take decisive action when an American cargo ship was seized by the
Cambodians. What did we do? We took decisive action and the Mayaguez
was gotten back. I think that is indicative of the strength, the courage, and the
right action that I can take in this Office.
What I am saying is we've done a good job in getting the economy of this
country on the right track. We're doing a good job in trying to restore con-
fidence in the White House, and I think we've done that. We're making a
major effort in all the 30-some States where there are primaries, and we've done
reasonably well. We won five out of six and yesterday we got virtually all of
the delegates in Pennsylvania, something over 100, so that's an indication that
we will go into every primary, and we will take on our opponent in all cases.
We don't pick and choose. We say it ought to be up to all of the people to
make a decision. And we went into Pennsylvania-our opponent didn't-we
came out with 100-plus delegates.
Now, let me just say this: I'm down here for the second time. We're going to
spend about 16 or 18 hours a day trying to make sure that the policies we be-
lieve in are sound, both at home and abroad. Betty was down last week, and
she had a great time. She enjoyed herself. I am sure she made a few converts.
She would have liked to have been here with me today, but we sort of have to
1250
