(535]
May 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
with proper licensing, safeguards, and export controls with the payment of roy-
alties and taxes by private enterprise to the United States Treasury;
-Provided also in the bill is a complementary backup system for expanding
existing Federal uranium enrichment capacity if private ventures are unable to
meet on time the needs of U.S. and foreign customers;
-Last, assist in controlling nuclear proliferation by persuading other nations
to accept international safeguards and forgo developments of nuclear weapons.
Finally, the bill and the committee report also authorize and direct the Energy
Research and Development Agency [Administration] to begin planning and
designing for the expansion of the existing uranium enrichment at Portsmouth,
Ohio.
As soon as Congress passes the Nuclear Fuel Assistance Act, I will ask the
Congress to appropriate $170 million for fiscal year 1977 to proceed with the
design, the planning, and the procurement of long, leadtime construction for
the Portsmouth plant. This, I think, is a good program, and I hope the Congress
acts so that I can request of the Congress the necessary funding for the com-
plementary program at Portsmouth, Ohio.
I will be glad to answer the first question.
QUESTIONS
SCHOOL BUSING AND QUALITY EDUCATION
[2.] Q. Mr. President, Mr. Udall has accused you of playing politics with
busing. Some Ohio civil rights leaders have indicated agreement. What is your
answer to this criticism, and also what is your advice to residents of Ohio cities
facing court-ordered desegregation next fall?
THE PRESIDENT. First, let me say that I have vigorously opposed court-ordered,
forced busing to achieve racial balance as the way to accomplish quality educa-
tion. I have opposed it from 1954 to the present time. We all know the tragedy
that has occurred in many communities where the court has ordered forced
busing on a massive basis. I think that's the wrong way to achieve quality
education.
Last November, well, before the Presidential primaries got going, I met with
the Secretary of HEW and with the Attorney General and asked them to come
up with some better alternatives to the achievement of quality education and
court-ordered, forced busing. The two Secretaries in my Cabinet have been
working on alternative proposals.
1746
