June 7
[582]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
are reasonably similar. I have said that we do have some differences in foreign
policy. And those foreign policy differences have been well expressed by him
on his side, and by me on my side, but I didn't say what you said I said.
Q. Do you think that the Congress is investigating the Wayne Hays scandal
with enough vigor?
THE PRESIDENT. I won't pass judgment on what the Congress is doing in that
case. That is their responsibility. I am sure that it will be carried out, but I am
not going to pass judgment on it.
On the other hand, as you know, the Department of Justice, which is in the
executive branch, is carrying out its responsibilities, and I am sure they will do
a good job.
Q. Your campaign manager, Rogers Morton, said it might be another
Democratic Watergate.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I don't want to pass judgment on the allegations until
they have been investigated by both the House as well as the Senate as well as
the executive branch and the Department of Justice. When the investigations
are concluded, why, then, I will see what the results are.
Q. Mr. President, I know you think you will win (inaudible). Other than
winning at the convention, what scenario do you foresee in sight if you get
(inaudible)?
The President. I am so encouraged by what we found in Ohio today and
what I found in New Jersey yesterday and the encouragement in California—
even though admittedly we are an underdog—I am more fortified than ever that
we are going to get the nomination on the first ballot in Kansas City.
REPORTER. Thank you very much.
NOTE: The exchange began at 9:50 p.m. at the
Toledo Express Airport. In his opening remarks,
the President referred to Governor James A. Rhodes
of Ohio, Senator Robert Taft, Jr., and Representa-
tive Delbert L. Latta.
582
Message to the Congress Reporting on Administration Efforts
To Settle the Cyprus Conflict. June 7, 1976
To the Congress of the United States:
Pursuant to Public Law 94-104, I am submitting my fourth periodic report on
the progress of the Cyprus negotiations and the efforts this Administration is
making to help find a lasting solution to the problems of the island. In previous
1857
