[389]
April 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
I can assure you that America's defense capabilities are fully sufficient to keep
the peace, to deter aggression, to protect our national security and our freedom.
And let me assure you once again, without any hesitation, qualification, or
equivocation, we intend to keep it that way.
But America's strength is measured by more than armaments alone. America
today is the greatest agricultural power, the most prolific producer of food and
fiber in the history of mankind. I want to see the family farm survive in this
great country. I want to make it easier for people to pass on their farms, the
product of many years of hard work, love, and faith, to their sons as well as to
their daughters. I want to make it easier to keep those farms in the family, rather
than sacrificing them to the tax collector.
I have proposed two measures to help promote that result: First, a proposal
that Congress act to stretch out estate tax payments at greatly reduced interest
rates over a 25-year period and, second, I have proposed an increase in the estate
tax exemption from $60,000 to $150,000. We need that kind of action.
These proposals, if enacted, would help not only family farms but family
businesses as well. Family-owned businesses, like every other segment of our
economy, suffered very heavily in the worst recession in 40 years. But thanks to
some strong, commonsense policies at the outset of the recession and thanks to
the determination and the courage of the American people, we are working our
way out of this economic difficulty.
With one favorable economic indicator after another pointing the way, we
are on the road to recovery and to prosperity in America, and we are picking
up more and more speed every day.
One of the main reasons this recession hurt us as much as it did was our
dependence on foreign energy sources. Price increases, as we all know, in 1973
quadrupled the cost of foreign oil. Our dependence on foreign oil was too great
then, as I recall 30 or 31 percent, and that dependence cost us a great deal more
than the long lines at the neighborhood gasoline stations.
It cost us hundreds and hundreds of thousands of jobs, billions of dollars in
production, increased inflation, and many, many months of major economic
problems. But the really shocking thing about all of this is that our dependence.
on foreign oil has actually increased since 1973, because the Congress, or a major-
ity of the Congress, simply refuses to recognize either the urgency or the severity
of this problem.
This is an oil country, I understand, around Conroe and Montgomery County,
and you very fundamentally understand the problem. We in America need en-
ergy independence. We must have it, and we are going to get it.
1318
