June 8
[583]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
The United States will continue to contribute actively to these efforts aimed
at a solution to the Cyprus problem. I remain convinced that progress can be
registered soon if mutual distrust and suspicions can be set aside, and each side
genuinely tests the will of the other side to reach a solution. For our part, we shall
remain in touch with Secretary General Waldheim and´all interested parties to
support the negotiating process. Our objective in the period ahead, as it has
been from the beginning of the Cyprus crisis, is to assist the parties to find a just
and equitable solution.
The White House,
June 7, 1976.
583
GERALD R. FORD
Remarks at a Meeting To Discuss the Collapse of the Teton Dam
in Idaho. June 8, 1976
GILBERT G. STAMM [Commissioner, Bureau of Reclamation]. There are prob-
ably three aspects to the problem. And of course the initial one is the dam,
Teton Dam itself.
THE PRESIDENT. Is that where the dam is?
MR. STAMM. (indicating on map) The dam is approximately where I am
pointing. It is in a canyon on the Teton River. We were aware of an unstable
foundation and we took extreme care in the specifications and in the implemen-
tation to seal off the foundation. We installed what we call a grout curtain, but
not one, but three. We put in a triple grout curtain and ran it a thousand feet
back from the canyon wall and ran it down to the impervious lake sediments,
about 250 feet below. So, theoretically, what happened couldn't happen, but it
did.
So, our job now is to identify precisely what caused the problem. And we are
forming a blue ribbon team of non-Federal people-world recognized engineers,
and we are also making our own independent investigation to find that trouble,
and that will take some little time. We may have to tunnel into that embank-
ment, that abutment, and that will take some time.
The next two aspects are the devastation downstream. Downstream from the
dam to about Idaho Falls, the lands were flooded and there was terrific devasta-
tion—homes lost, trailer courts, lands washed away, irrigation systems washed
out. And I think for the image of the Federal Government, as well as the welfare
of the people, we need to move in immediately and start something there.
1859
