April 27
[370]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Because of this delay, campaigns which were planned in accordance with
the funding and regulatory provisions of the election law now lack funds and
lack ground rules. The complex changes in the draft conference bill can only
introduce added uncertainty in the law and thus create confusion for the can-
didates in the present campaigns and jeopardize the conduct of this year's Presi-
dential election.
Accordingly, I again urge the Congress to immediately pass the simple cor-
rections mandated by the Supreme Court and proposed by me. The American
people want and deserve an independent and effective election commission.
There must be a fair and clear law on the books to guide the campaigns. All
Presidential candidates need the funds which are blocked by the congressional
inaction.
A congressional conference committee is still working on the details of the
Federal Election Commission legislation. This legislation could have a major
impact on how Presidential elections are conducted in this country. This is not
a subject that any President can treat lightly, and I will not commit myself to
sign or veto until the Congress completes definitive action on the bill.
There is no question that the congressional conferees can adopt a bill which
I can quickly sign into law. They should avoid objectionable and highly con-
troversial provisions by moving toward simple reconstitution suggested by the
Supreme Court and proposed by me in February.
371
Remarks on Arrival at Bossier City, Louisiana.
April 27, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Joe Waggonner, Governor Edwards, Congressman
John Breaux, General Hoban, Mayor Cathy, Mayor Allen, Mr. Shanley, all of
these wonderful young people here, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
Let me say at the outset that I am just delighted to be here and to participate
in the 28th annual Holiday of Dixie Festival, and I am obviously very proud
and very honored to be the first President of the United States to speak in the
Shreveport-Bossier area. And I express my deepest appreciation for your wonder-
ful, wonderful welcome.
I was very, very happy to be able to accept the invitation of Congressman Joe
Waggonner to be with you during this festival. Joe is a very old and very dear
friend of mine, a former colleague of mine, in the House of Representatives.
1227
