[517]
May 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
is a 75-percent reduction in the rate of inflation, and we are darned proud of that
record.
A year ago we were in the worst economic condition with a serious recession.
Unemployment was going up and employment was going down. But we fol-
lowed the right course, I didn't succumb to the quick fixes that were recom-
mended by the Congress. I said there was a better way, to rely on the free enter-
prise system, the private sector in America. And the net result is we now have
87,400,000 people gainfully employed, on the job in America, an alltime high,
and that is a darned good record. As a matter of fact, in the last 12 months we
have added 3,300,000 more jobs in America; in the last month, 710,000 more
jobs. We are on our way. Everything that is supposed to be going up is going
up, and everything that is supposed to be going down is going down. That is a
good program, and we are very proud of it.
But let us talk for just a minute about some of the things that do concern, I
am sure, as I understand, about a third of the people in this great State of Ne-
vada. A lot of people for the last 40 years have had faith and trust in the money
that they were paying into the Social Security Trust Fund, and 33 million
Americans today are relying on social security because they have earned it.
And a good many millions of Americans today are participating, expecting
their government will keep faith with them. But because the Congress has
procrastinated, the Social Security Trust Fund is in some jeopardy.
As a matter of fact, in this 12-month period, $3.5 billion will be the deficit. In
other words, the income is $3.5 billion less than the expenditures, and next
year the deficit will be $4 billion.
The Ford administration believes in facing up to the cold, hard facts, and I
know some people have urged and advocated that we duck the issue in the Oval
Office. I said in January this year that wasn't fair to 33 million people who were
counting on their government keeping faith.
So, I recommended some action that would preserve the financial integrity
of the Social Security Trust Fund. I believe that's the only honest, responsible
thing to do, because we have an obligation to make certain that those who have
retired and those about to retire have the security that they expect.
I only cite this because some people in one way or another want to play politics,
whether it is social security or some of the other programs and problems that
we have. It's my firm conviction that the best politics is calling them straight
and dealing fairly, justly, and responsibly with the American people.
The Federal Government, for the last few years, has been spending its money
at an accelerated rate. The rate of expenditures in the Federal Government for
1688
