[505]
May 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
ment will do all we can funding-wise and otherwise to help in the kind of a case
you mention.
Q. Mr. President, my question is that on May 12 the Chancellor of West
Germany, Chancellor Schmidt, in the Bundestag, called for trade and economic
policies of Hjalmar Schacht. He was financial minister to Hitler and praised
the economical policies of Hitler.
That hideous statement was not covered in the United States press. I am sure
you are familiar with it. I just wonder if you could please comment on that?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think it's appropriate for me to involve myself in the
internal political life of another country. And I would have to, in addition—
before commenting, if I did-read the whole text of what Chancellor Schmidt
said and not a part, as indicated by you, because it might have been taken out
of context.
Q. Mr. President, I have a question about Africa—in specific, Rhodesia. This
last week there was an article in Time magazine that had a commander in the
Rhodesian army who made a statement that Kissinger was 6 months too late
in Africa in his addresses and so on and our policy there. If this statement is
correct, why were we late?
THE PRESIDENT. We wouldn't have been late at all-if we are late-if the Con-
gress had supported us with the minimal amount of money in letting us sup-
port the two, what I say were authentic Angolan forces—the FNLA [National
Front for the Liberation of Angola] and the UNITA [Union for the Total
Independence of Angola]. But that tragedy did interfere with any efforts that
we could make at an earlier date. And, in addition, Secretary Kissinger went
there not only for the purposes of trying to prevent the radicalization but also
to present a very comprehensive program to the United Nations-trade, and so
forth, UNCTAD [United Nations Conference on Trade and Development —
which he did, which was a very dramatic and I think a very constructive pro-
gram, which was embraced by the leaders of virtually every one of the African
nations.
So, it was a combination of circumstances-one, the situation in Angola; and
secondly, the scheduled meeting of the UNCTAD organization. There was
nothing deliberate on our part. It was simply a circumstance beyond our con-
trol. I don't believe, however-or don't agree, I should say-with the observa-
tion of the Rhodesian that you quote because I think we have gotten a moderate
African nation to turn back from radicalism and come back to a responsible
position. And I think we have blunted the most radical elements in southern
Africa, and the situation is infinitely better today than it was 6 months ago.
1652
