[327]
April 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
Furthermore, I am and will continue to be firmly opposed to putting your
grain in the control of some Government board or international reserve. I am
firmly opposed to subsidized imports. I don't want American farmers having to
compete with the national treasuries of foreign governments.
I am just as firmly in favor of farm policies which yielded a $21.6 billion agri-
cultural export market last year, and it will be more than $22 billion this year. I
am in favor of policies which will enable you to export an estimated 48 million
metric tons of feed grain, an alltime record, in the current marketing year. That
is 12 million more than we exported last year and about 7 million more than we
exported in the previous record year of 1973-74.
I am in favor of policies which will enable you to export between 1.5 and 1.6
billion bushels of corn during this marketing year, and I am in favor of policies
which will enable you to export between 250 and 300 million bushels of grain
sorghum this year, a record amount.
These policies are the ones this administration has followed for the past 20
months. And they are the policies we will continue to follow for the next 4
years to keep agriculture strong and keep it growing in this great country, the
United States of America.
As you know, our domestic feed grain usage has not been expanding as
rapidly as our export demands in recent years, but even domestically, where a
short corn crop in the 1974-75 season resulted in a very substantial decline in
feed grain use, we are steadily and constructively recovering.
The number of cattle on feed is sharply higher than a year ago, although it
will be later this year before we can expect feeding rates to approach those of
the early 1970's.
I suspect we will get into some of these particular matters in a little more
detail during the question-and-answer period, but let me make one or two brief
remarks and general observations.
With respect to our overall agricultural policies, I have appointed, as you well
know, the Secretary of Agriculture, Earl Butz, as Chairman of my new Cabinet-
level Agricultural Policy Committee. This Committee will have the central role
in developing and directing our Nation's food policies. And with Earl Butz as
Chairman, you can be sure that his strong, plain-spoken common sense and
his advocacy of your interest will be well heard in the highest councils of
government.
You will also be interested to know that Secretary Butz leaves tomorrow on a
10-day mission to promote the further development of our agricultural export
1080
