[327]
April 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
Those in the middle bracket, where most of the taxpayers are, have been getting,
I think, short shrift.
Now, in the tax proposals that I submitted to the Congress last year where we
would reduce overall Federal taxes by $28 billion-three quarters of it to indi-
viduals and 25 percent to business-I recommended that the biggest rate reduc-
tion come in those categories from, I think it was, $9,000 or $10,000 up to $25,000
or $30,000.
That is the middle-income bracket, and they deserve the majority of tax relief
as we move ahead and try to make more sense out of the internal revenue code.
If I had my way with a Congress that would cooperate, that is the way I would
do it.
Now, let's turn to the other question. As I recollect, when are we going to have
a balanced budget, was that the question?
Q. What do you propose to do to solve the problem?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, let me tell you what I propose to do to solve our Federal
fiscal problem-and it is a problem.
In the budget that I submitted in January of this year, I cut the growth of
Federal spending by 50 percent, from an annual increase of 11 percent per year
to 5.5 percent per year. If we can get the Congress to accept my budget proposals,
we can have a balanced budget in 1979 and will, in addition, have a substantial
Federal tax reduction.
Now, let me just tell you what the Congress has done so far. I submitted in
January a budget for $394 billion. That called for a 5.5 percent increase in Fed-
eral expenditures. Already in their preliminary work the Congress and the
House and the Senate have-one a little more than the other-but basically they
have indicated they are going to increase Federal spending to around $411 or
$413 billion. In other words, instead of holding the lid on Federal spending, as I
have requested, they have already in their preliminary estimates increased it by
$12, $13 billion.
Now, to get to another approach—not by the budget, but by the bills that are
sent down for me to approve or to veto. Since I became President 20 months ago,
I have vetoed 47 bills. That is an alltime record. And Congress has sustained 39
of them, primarily with the help of people like Senator Tower.
But the interesting point is that with the 39 vetoes that have been sustained,
we have saved the taxpayers $13 billion. And I can say to you—and John, I know,
agrees with it—if they keep sending them down, they are going to be vetoed
again and again and again.
1
1084
