May 26
[533]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
cluding Medicare [Medicaid], into a single $10 billion bloc grant program to
the States. If we can consolidate these programs, we can make them far more
humane and far more effective.
We can improve the services that they provide to you and millions like you,
and we can get those services to more people who really need them. Programs
of this kind, despite some abuses, do a tremendous amount of good. They pro-
vide food services and health care for many of our older citizens. For some of
our elderly neighbors, they provide the means for life itself.
I know it is all too easy to say that the Federal Government is to big, that
this program and that program ought to be cut out of the Federal budget, tossed
back to the States to cope with it if their taxpayers will permit it.
Jim Rhodes knows and I think most of you know it is not that simple. I know
it, and anyone who has thought it out knows it very, very well. The programs—
if I can put it this way—the problems and the challenges discussed at this con-
ference will center on the needs of Ohio's older citizens. They are often very,
very special needs.
But the elderly of our Nation are also vitally affected by the problems and con-
cerns that face all of the 215 million Americans. Perhaps the greatest of these
are the problems of inflation. During 1974, August 9 to be precise, when I became
President, inflation was ranging at an annual rate of 12 percent or higher, eating
away at everybody's buying power, but absolutely devouring the livelihood of
people on fixed incomes.
Americans living on fixed incomes could see their purchasing power eroding
with each visit to the supermarket. I knew that something had to be done to
bring the situation under control as quickly and as effectively as possible. I
knew that deficit spending by the Federal Government was a major contributor
to inflation, that slowing the growth of Federal spending was essential to solve
the problem. In short, I believe our Government should spend less and our Gov-
ernment should tax less.
I am proud to say to each and every one of you, I'm proud of the sound and
steady policies of my administration that have succeeded. In the last 4 months—
from January through the month of April-the rate of inflation on an annual
basis is less than 3 percent, and that's a 75-percent reduction from what it was
when I became President.
It is a victory for all Americans because inflation is no respecter of age. The
old as well as the young suffer. What I want-and I think all of us want, young
or old, black or white, rich or poor-is to live in dignity, to live in security, and
to live in peace.
1741
