[542]
May 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
by those who use them. When well designed, well made, and properly used they
support and lengthen life. If poorly designed, poorly made, and improperly used
they can threaten and impair it.
Despite the increasing importance of devices, the Food and Drug Administra-
tion has had inadequate authority to deal with them. FDA has had no reliable
way of knowing how many devices there are, who is making them, who is sell-
ing them, what risks to health and life they may present, and when a manu-
facturer has found it necessary to remove them from the medical marketplace.
In addition, no device was required to be proven safe and effective prior to
marketing, no matter how crucial it might be to the person using it, even if that
use involved implantation in his body.
Recognizing these and other deficiencies, the administration ordered a study
of the problem in 1969 and subsequently asked Congress to enact remedial
legislation.
In its deliberations since that time, Congress benefited greatly from the co-
operation voluntarily extended by the medical device industry, who clearly saw
the need for legislation that would protect the consumer as well as the manufac-
turer who refused to compromise with safety. Representatives of consumers and
health professionals also played an important role.
The Medical Device Amendments of 1976 eliminate the deficiencies that
accorded FDA "horse and buggy" authority to deal with "laser age" problems.
It is important not only in what it will do to protect the consumer; it is also
important as a symbol for the kind of regulation that I feel is most ap-
propriate to government. It does not represent another expansion of govern-
ment into affairs we might better manage ourselves. Instead, this is an example
of government doing for the individual citizen what he or she cannot do
unaided.
I welcome this legislation and commend the FDA who identified the need,
cooperated in its development, and, finally, will be entrusted with its enforce-
ment.
This agency daily faces a most difficult task-preventing threats to the public
health in a way that is not onerous, but fully consonant with the principles of
competitive economic development on which this Nation was built. It is a task
that requires determination, scientific skill, judgment, and, most of all, compas-
sion for the hopes and needs of our fellow man. Dr. Alexander M. Schmidt,
Commissioner of Food and Drugs, has effectively taken on the job of assuring
that the hope and expectations of the consumer for lifegiving drugs and devices
are not false promises.
1766
