May 3
[418]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
earnings and profits increasing, does the administration expect to take a more
forceful approach in seeking air and water pollution compliance as to purchase
of expensive pollution control devices and implementation of these programs?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the EPA has the responsibility in that area for clean
air and clean water. I believe that their program is basically sound. In some in-
stances, they have gone too far. And I think up in Indiana, as I recall, in the
Gary area, they were too rigid, and they required that several of the plants of
one of the major steel industries up there close. I think in retrospect that was
a bit too arbitrary.
So, I think the EPA has to have a balance in the way it approaches the re-
sponsibilities that it has. Sometimes they are too tough. On some occasions, I
think they may have been too lenient. But that is the responsibility of the EPA.
And I personally feel that we have to establish a balance between what is at-
tainable in clean air and clean water and, at the same time, continue our eco-
nomic prosperity.
Q. Would too much forcefulness in applying this create some reverse eco-
nomic problems?
The President. Well obviously, up in the Gary area, when they forced the
closing of several steel plants, it did have an adverse economic impact on that
particular community. Whether that was totally arbitrary or not, I'm not the
best judge of it. But obviously the closing of those several plants had an ad-
verse economic effect on that area.
DEMOCRATIC CROSSOVER VOTE IN PRIMARY ELECTIONS
[18.] Q. Good morning, sir. Some of your aides tell me you're not too
pleased about one aspect of the Texas primary, possibly several aspects, but par-
ticularly the fact that Democrats crossed over, that you don't feel Democrats
should be selecting a Republican Presidential nominee.
THE PRESIDENT. We, of course, believe that Republicans ought to be the major
factor in the selection of a Republican candidate for the Presidency. On the
other hand, any Democrat who's philosophically in tune with my philosophy,
I welcome as a supporter, whether it's in the primary or whether it's in the gen-
eral election. But the basic responsibility of Republicans is to support their
nominee for the convention in Kansas City.
Q. I gather then that you are not terribly distraught at the idea of large cross-
over votes as long as you get them? Is that correct?
THE PRESIDENT. That's a very practical way to approach it. [Laughter]
1443
