May 12
[460]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
during my lifetime. So, as I look back over the last 21 months, I think we have
good reason to be proud of the record of the Ford administration.
First, we've had peace, prosperity, and we have trust in the White House.
As far as peace is concerned, we've achieved this, we're maintaining it and, I
might add that no young person, no young man is faced with the draft or
selective service. He has an option. And we're going to keep that strength.
And we're going to keep the peace.
Secondly, about a year ago, if I had been here in the State of Michigan, there
was a great deal of gloom and despair because of the worst economic condi-
tions in the last 40 years. Because we had the right policies, because we were
firm, we didn't panic, we are on a very, very surging boom. And all over this
country, I find a restoration of confidence in the economic system that has
been so good to so many Americans for the last 200 years.
Then, 21 months ago, there had been a great loss of confidence in the White
House and the institutions, and the net result was-as I was saying, 21 months
ago there had been a great loss of confidence in the White House. There were
scandals. The net result is that when I became President we first had to re-
store public trust. I think we have done that.
So, I would summarize the situation right today: that we have peace and we
have prosperity and we have trust. And that's a good program, and that's the
kind of a program the people of Michigan and, I think, the people throughout
the United States will support not only in Kansas City, but also in November.
I'll be glad to take several questions.
REPORTER. Mr. President, do you think that you have a very good chance of
winning in Michigan?
THE PRESIDENT. You bet I do.
Q. Mr. President, what do you hope to do about a possible crossover vote
in the State by Wallace Democrats to Mr. Reagan?
THE PRESIDENT. I want every person in the State of Michigan who identifies
with my political philosophy, who believes in the program that I have out-
lined of peace, prosperity, and trust, to vote for me. I want every person who
is registered in this State who can feel confidence in what we have done to
vote for me, whether they call themselves Republicans, Independents, or
Democrats.
Q. Mr. President, are you planning any changes in your campaign strategy?
THE PRESIDENT. Not at all. We run a good, tight ship. And we believe that
the program we have is a good one.
Let me refresh your memory a bit. I, early on, made the decision that I
1533
