[485]
May 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
militarily and otherwise, to maintain that peace in the future, and we are going
to do so.
Let me remind all of you that for the first time in 20 years a President can
either seek reelection or seek election and say that this country is at peace.
And I can say to you without any hesitation or reservation that we do have
the capability today, we will have it tomorrow, to maintain that peace, and
with this administration for the next 4 years, we will.
Let's take a look at the economy. I know Michigan has had a tough time
in the last 12 months. We have had difficult times around the United States,
but I inherited the situation. Where do we stand as far as inflation is con-
cerned? When I became your President, it was 12 percent or higher; for the
first 3 months of 1976, the rate of inflation has been reduced to 3 percent or
less. That is progress, and we are going to make more of it in the future.
A year ago today, we were having serious employment problems, and we still
have them in some areas of our country, including the State of Michigan. But
in the last 12 months we have added 3,300,000 jobs in the United States. We
have 87,400,000 people gainfully employed, an alltime record.
Unemployment is going down, and employment is going up, and we are
going to keep those trends going with my policies. As a matter of fact, every-
thing that is supposed to be going down is going down, and everything that is
supposed to be going up is going up.
One final comment: This administration has taken the position from the
very day that I took the oath of office, we will promise no more than we can
deliver, and we will deliver everything we promise. That is a good program,
and I want you to support it.
With your help on Tuesday, we can send a message across the whole United
States. And if you give me the support that I think this record deserves, I prom-
ise you that in the next 4 years I will not let you down; I will continue the good
job that we have done for the last 21 months.
Thank you for your help.
[2.] DURAND (10:17 a.m.)
Before I have an opportunity to say a few words, Betty and I would like to
come down and shake some hands, and then we'll come back and have an
opportunity to say hello. Let me just say at the outset: Gee, it's nice to be back
home. I appreciate very, very much, as Betty does, all of you being out here in
Durand. Thank you very, very much.
1598
