1452]
May 11
Public Papers of the Presidents
The bill that I am signing today-the National Science and Technology
Policy, Organization, and Priorities Act of 1976, H.R. 10230-will help us in
meeting those challenges. It outlines a comprehensive policy for achievement
of our national objectives through the effective utilization of science and
technology.
The key provision of the bill is the creation of a new Office of Science and
Technology Policy in the Executive Office of the President. I first proposed
legislation to authorize this office in June 1975. I attach great importance not
only to a strong national effort in science and technology but also to the avail-
ability of expert advice at all levels in the Federal Government. This new office
will provide an important source of advice on the scientific, engineering, and
technical aspects of issues that require attention at the highest levels of govern-
ment.
The bill also calls for a 2-year study of the overall context of the Federal science,
engineering, and technology effort. This study should provide the basis for
reassessing the organization and management of Federal research and develop-
ment activities. It should help to ensure that government efforts are properly
related to those of private enterprise which has the primary responsibility for
turning new ideas into new and improved products and services for the market-
place.
Finally, the bill calls upon the Director of the new Office to establish an inter-
governmental science, engineering, and technology advisory panel to identify
problems of the State, regional, and local levels where science and technology
can contribute.
Along with continued, vigorous support from the private sector, a strong Fed-
eral effort in science, engineering, and technology is critical to our future. My
1977 budget calls for $24.7 billion for Federal research and development pro-
grams-an increase of 11 percent over 1976 estimates. I am hopeful that the
Congress will approve my funding requests, particularly those to increase Fed-
eral support of basic research.
The National Science and Technology Policy, Organization, and Priorities
Act of 1976 reflects a renewed recognition of the importance of scientific, engi-
neering and technological contributions. It symbolizes the confidence we Amer-
icans have in our ability to improve our way of life and to find better solutions
to the problems of the future. I take great pleasure in signing this bill into law.
1522
