May 24
[516]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
I have proposed to the Congress that we cut Federal income taxes by $10
billion on July 1 of this year and, particularly, to increase the personal exemp-
tion from $750 per person to $1,000 per person. My proposal also calls for the
enactment of a special accelerated depreciation allowance for new plants and
new equipment to make permanent the increase in the investment tax credit
and to retain the $50,000 corporate surcharge exemption.
I want the American people to keep more of the money that they have worked
so hard to earn. I want them to spend it the way they want to spend it—at the
shopping center, for their children's education, for whatever they need, instead
of paying more and more for government programs that we don't need.
As some of you may know from my struggles with the Congress, I have
vetoed 49 bills sent to me by the House and the Senate over the last 21 months.
Responsible Members of the Congress sustained 42 of those vetoes, and those
vetoes which were sustained saved the American taxpayer $13 billion.
May I add a footnote: If the Congress keeps on sending me big spending,
budget-busting bills, I'm prepared to use my veto again and again and again.
If the Congress would act sensibly—and that's asking an awful lot—[laughter]—
and enact my tax cut proposals instead of thinking up new ways to spend your
money for you, we could create the most tremendous demand for goods and
services, that many, many more American jobs and lasting prosperity would be
the inevitable result.
We must also, in all honesty, cut the rate of growth in Federal spending. My
budget for fiscal year 1977 would cut the rate of growth in Federal spending by
50 percent and set us on a sound and reliable course for a balanced budget by
1979, plus an additional Federal tax reduction.
I think that's a good economic package for America, and I need your help
in controlling a completely irresponsible Congress. When we balance that
budget, we can get the Government out of competition with you in the private
money market, and that's exactly what I plan to do.
I've done battle with inflation far too long to let it get out of control again.
When I took office in August of 1974, the rate of inflation was 12 percent or
higher, the highest rate in more than 50 years. In the last 21 months, we have
cut that rate of inflation by more than half. As a matter of fact, for the first 4
months of calendar year 1976, the annual rate of inflation is 3 percent or less.
And let me add, with a little more cooperation from the Congress, we can cut
it even further.
1685
