[318]
April 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
The facts are, we didn't panic. We knew we had to solve inflation, and we
knew that the best way to do it was to do it with a firm, steady course. We knew
that big government, expensive government was a principal cause of inflation in
this country. And so, we repeatedly tried to hold down the lid, as far as the Con-
gress was concerned, as they came from Capitol Hill with one bloated budget
proposal after another.
John mentioned the vetoes. In 19-plus months-well, it's 47 now, I vetoed one
yesterday. I vetoed one yesterday, that if they sustain it, it will save us $150
million. But the more important thing, out of the 46 that I vetoed, Congress has
sustained 39 of them. And in the process of sustaining 39, we have saved the
taxpayers $13 billion. And I might add parenthetically, I think the Congress,
either the House or Senate, will sustain the one that I vetoed yesterday.
But the net result of a firm, steady course that relied on the private sector
taking us out of the recession, instead of trying to get us out of the recession
by expanding the Federal Government, has proven sound. We are now well on
the road to controlling inflation. We have gone from over 12 percent inflation
down to 6 percent or less per year, and it is going further downward.
At the same time, we are increasing employment, and we are decreasing un-
employment. We got a report last Friday, not this Friday, that we had gained
375,000 new jobs in our economy in 1 month, the month of March. The statis-
tics showed that we had increased the total number of jobs in the last 10 months
by 2,600,000 and that the total employment in the month of March for the
country as a whole was 86,700,000, the most people employed in our country's
history. So we are on the right road. And we have done it with the emphasis on
the private sector, which is the crux of what all of us as Republicans believe in
and a good many of our conservative Democratic friends believe in.
Now, let's take a look at the world situation. When I became President, most
of our allies weren't sure what our attitude would be. Our adversaries were look-
ing to take an opportunity to perhaps exploit the situation, and so what we had
to do right from the outset was to convince our allies-Japan and NATO and
elsewhere-that we would have a firm foreign policy and a strong military
capability.
And I can assure you from my many contacts in Europe, in the Pacific, and
elsewhere that our allies believe America is firm and America is capable of
meeting any crisis that would be thrust upon us. And from my contacts with
those adversaries that we have, I think they know that your President is a
pretty good Yankee trader. We haven't given up anything, and we don't in-
1032
