July 1
[629]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
come taxes by an additional $10 billion, which would represent a tax saving of
more than $225 for a family of four earning $15,000 a year. I also asked the
Congress to restrain the growth of Federal spending, an essential step toward
balancing the Federal budget.
Now, 9 months later, the response from Congress is typical of their repeated
failure to face the issues. The Congress, after waiting until the last possible day,
has enacted a 2-month freeze of withholding rates rather than cutting taxes
another $10 billion, as I requested.
Furthermore, the Democratic majority has adopted a spending ceiling for
the next fiscal year that exceeds my recommendations by $17 billion. These ac-
tions by the Democratic Congress are wrong for the people and wrong for
our economy.
My proposals would ensure greater prosperity and more and better jobs
without inflation. We need greater tax cuts and less Federal spending. The
American people should have more control over what they earn rather than the
Government constantly dipping further into their pocketbook.
I will continue to press the Congress to enact the comprehensive program
of tax and spending reductions that I proposed last October, and I urge all
Americans to join me in that effort.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 6:38 p.m. at a cere-
mony in the Oval Office at the White House.
As enacted, the bill (H.R. 10051), is Public Law
94-331 (90 Stat. 781).
629
Statement on Signing the Foreign Assistance and Related
Programs Appropriations Act, 1976. July 1, 1976
I HAVE signed H.R. 12203, the Foreign Assistance and Related Programs Ap-
propriations Act, 1976, and the period ending September 30, 1976. The bill
appropriates funds for a variety of programs in support of U.S. foreign policy
objectives, most importantly our pursuit of a peaceful solution to the problems
of the Middle East.
Nevertheless, I have serious reservations regarding one element of the bill and
believe it is necessary to comment on why I have signed the bill, notwithstand-
ing my objections to it.
Title I of the bill contains a provision which conditions the availability of ap-
propriated funds, in certain instances, upon the acquiescence of the Appropria-
1935
