May 7
[442]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
the last 6 or 10 years, that Congress will write legislation that sounds good at
the time it is enacted.
It is a very good illustration of that in what we call the Delaney amend-
ment, which says that if a certain substance produces cancer in heavy doses in
animals, it automatically must be banned. That's in the legislation without any
equivocation. So, some of the problems that you raise and others may raise go
back to the fundamental legislation passed by the Congress.
Now, I'm not exempting all the bureaucrats, believe me, but if there is any
reason—and it appears on the surface there is-for the veterinarian profession
to participate in some of this program establishment, I would be the first to
advocate it. And I will talk to the Secretary of Agricuture, after we finish
here, about it.
Q. Honorable Mr. President, distinguished Senators, Secretary of Agricul-
ture, I deem it a privilege to be here this evening for this farm forum. I am
president of the Nebraska Farmers Union.
My question is, since the Government has put a ceiling on grain prices for
the last 3 years in a row by various kinds of controls and embargoes on exports,
now for the next 5 years the Government's agreement with the Russians pro-
vides that there will be controls on what the Russians can buy any time they
might want more than the average of the past several years. The question is, if
the administration insists on putting a ceiling on farm prices to keep them
from going up in times of shortages, why don't you put a floor under farm
prices to keep them from going down in times of surpluses?
THE PRESIDENT. Sir, I know of no ceiling price on any farm commodity. Cer-
tainly none have been applied since I have been President. None. So, I think
we have to dismiss that, because it isn't a fact.
Now the situation in the 5-year agreement with the Soviet Union provided
that in this year's crop or last year's crop they could buy 6 million more metric
tons than they had bought up to the time of the agreement. And as I was check-
ing the facts and figures today, they have got a leeway of about another million
tons before they can say, "Can we buy some more?"
Well, as I said a moment ago, I see no circumstances whatsoever as to why,
if they wanted to buy 2 million more tons or 5 million more tons, we wouldn't
sell it to them. We would sell it to them. And I said that once, and I will repeat
it here again.
Now, in the 5-year program that goes through 1981, they guarantee to buy 6
million metric tons. That's above the average that they have bought over the
last 5-year period. And they can go up to 8 million metric tons without con-
1497
