[485]
May 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
I would ask First Mama to make a speech, but I understand the train is about
to pull out, and I am afraid that if I let her speak it will make me look bad.
You know, whenever I have not got time to campaign—and I do have to be Pres-
ident a good share of the time-I send Betty out to get my votes up to her polls.
And she does a good job of it, and I am very, very grateful and thankful.
You better get on, Rick,' because we are leaving. He's a good photographer,
but I don't want him to get lost as we move ahead.
Real nice to see every one of you. I see so many people I have known over the
years, and I just wish we could stay longer, but we do have to get to Kalamazoo
and Niles. And we are going to end up up at Holland in the Tulip Parade.
So, we have covered a lot of territory, or will by the time this day is over. Nice
to see you.
Thank you very much.
[5.] KALAMAZOO (2:48 p.m.)
As soon as First Mama gets here, we'll say a few words. Here she is. You can
see who gets all the cheers in the Ford family. [Laughter]
Let me say that Betty and I are very grateful for the wonderful reception we
have had in the State of Michigan, starting in Flint, and here we are in Kalama-
zoo. Of course, the further west we get in the State, the closer to home we get,
so we know many, many people here in Kalamazoo. It's just great to be back
in Michigan and have an opportunity on this train ride to see as many of our
friends as we have.
You know, that train started in Flint; it's going to end down in Niles, Michi-
gan. It's a train that's going to go from here to Kansas City. We're going to
win in Kansas City, and we're going to win in November just as well.
I would like to take just a few minutes, if I might, to first ask for your sup-
port and tell you why I want you to vote for Jerry Ford. You ought to have
some good reasons, and let me tell you what they are.
When I took the oath of office in August of 1974, this country was having all
kinds of trouble. There had been a loss of confidence in the American people
as far as their National Government was concerned. There had been scandals
in high places. The American people were uncertain as to the leadership of
this great country.
At the same time, we were on the brink of an economic recession that was
the worst in 40 years. This country was suffering in August of 1974 inflation at
a rate of 12 percent or more. And in August of that year, our allies abroad,
¹ Ricardo Thomas, White House photographer.
1604
