May 3
[418]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Q. I see. One other question: Is there any provision in the United States
Government which offers scholarship aid to international students who want
to come to our country to study?
The President. Oh, yes, the Fulbright program and related programs are
aimed precisely at trying to get foreign students to come to the United States
on a scholarship basis. And that program or those programs have been very,
very successful. As a matter of fact, a number of the heads of government
around the world today in one way or another have come to the United States
and studied and gone back to their country and become leaders in their own
individual country. And they did come here in many instances on the basis of
scholarships.
Q. Thank you very much, and good luck tomorrow.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you.
INTERIOR DEPARTMENT GRANT TO GEORGIA
[20.] Q. Mr. President, Governor Reagan has accused you of taking unfair
advantage of your incumbency by dealing out Federal grants, at fortuitous times,
in advance of primaries. Yesterday, the Associated Press quoted your Interior
Secretary, Thomas Kleppe, as acknowledging that at least part of the reason
for awarding a $1 million grant to Georgia for a river reclamation project was
the upcoming primary there tomorrow. What's your reaction to this sort of
candor?
THE PRESIDENT. I had no foreknowledge of what the Secretary of the Interior
was going to do. I did know from a previous trip to Atlanta, Georgia that
the people of Georgia were very interested in a reclamation or park beautification
program on the Chattahoochee River. They have been working with the
Department of Interior for a long period of time in trying to preserve the
shorelines of that river in the metropolitan area of Atlanta.
The Secretary of Interior made that decision himself. I'm sure it was
meritorious, but if he made it in the last 24 hours, I think it won't be harmful.
But I don't know how beneficial it will be.
Q. Do you plan to speak with him about his timing either to commend
him or-
THE PRESIDENT. I think a Cabinet officer can handle those kind of matters
himself, and I have no intention of contacting him concerning this very
meritorious award. The money came out of the Land and Water Conservation
Act. It's a preservation of a very historic area in the Atlanta area, and I think
1445
