[362]
April 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. Détente, which I don't use as a word any more-[laughter]—
but regardless of the word, what we are really interested in is the process, the
results.
All right, let's talk about what's been accomplished and let's talk with the
newest plus. For a number of years, we have been negotiating in order to have a
peaceful result of what we call “peaceful nuclear explosion negotiations” where
we conduct nuclear explosion for peaceful purposes and the Soviet Union does
likewise.
What we have tried to do is set a threshold of 150,000 kt's so that both sides
can develop the peaceful use of nuclear explosions for peaceful purposes. For
years and years, as long as I have been in government, we've been trying to get
onsite inspection of Soviet nuclear or other military operations. We've been doing
this since Ike. I can remember President Eisenhower trying to get onsite
inspection.
And in this agreement, which we reached within the last 2 or 3 weeks, we
have made a breakthrough. We are going to have onsite inspection of peaceful
nuclear explosions in the Soviet Union. I think that's progress under a relaxation
policy of relations between the United States and the Soviet Union.
In addition, if you go back a few years, you will find that this process of relax-
ing negotiations (tensions) has resulted in a historic agreement as to West
Berlin where the parties-the Soviet Union, East Germany, West Germany, and
others involved were able to arrange a very far-reaching agreement as far as
West Berlin was concerned.
If you look at the situation in the Middle East, because of the process of relax-
ing tensions between the United States and the Soviet Union we have been able
to act in a very constructive way in making slow but sure headway in getting
progress toward a permanent and equitable and fair peace in the Middle East.
Most of you, I'm sure, recognize that the Middle East has been historically the
most volatile, the most complicated, the most controversial area in the world.
In the last 25 years we have had four wars and every one of them has gotten
bloodier. But, because we were able to work in the Middle East with the Israelis
trusting us and the Arabs trusting us, without the Soviet Union involving itself
in undercutting our efforts, we have made slow but sure progress toward that
kind of a peace that we have all wanted for a great many years in that part of the
world.
Well, I could go on and on because there are a number of things where we
have been able to sit down and, in an atmosphere not of confrontation but of
relaxation, discuss, in sanity, things that ought to be solved without a war. I
1196
