April 13
[337]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
The extension of our jurisdiction to 200 miles will enable us to protect and
conserve the valuable fisheries off our coasts. It is indeed unfortunate that the
slow pace of the negotiations of the United Nations Law of the Sea Conference
has mandated our course of action here today. However, the foreign overfishing
off our coasts cannot be allowed to continue without resolution.
The need for a timely and successful Law of the Sea Conference is even more
pressing today than ever before. I have directed our negotiators to make every
effort, consistent with our basic interests, to conclude the substantive negotiations
this year. The bill I sign today is generally consistent with the consensus emerg-
ing at the Conference. It is increasingly apparent that a failure to reach sub-
stantive agreement this year will move the world community inevitably toward
disorder respecting competing use of the oceans. In the absence of a timely treaty,
no nation can be assured that its paramount interest in the oceans will be
protected.
Some specific aspects of this legislation require comment. I supported this
legislation on the condition that the effective date of the legislation would be
delayed so that the Law of the Sea Conference could complete its work and to
permit sufficient time for a proper transition.
The tasks of continuing our negotiating efforts at the Law of the Sea Con-
ference and at the same time establishing new fishery plans, issuing hundreds
of new fishing permits, and negotiating specific fishery agreements with foreign
governments will require substantial resources in excess of those presently allo-
cated to international fisheries affairs. The Departments of State, Commerce,
and Transportation must do their best to implement the act fully. Since available
resources are finite, however, it is possible that full implementation may take
more time than is provided in the act.
I am concerned about our ability to fulfill the tasks in the time and manner
provided in the act. I am particularly anxious that no action be taken which
would compromise our commitment to protect the freedom of navigation and
the welfare of our distant water fisheries. Surely, we would not wish to see the
United States engaged in international disputes because of an absence of
needed flexibility.
Additionally, I am concerned about four specific problem areas which are
raised by this legislation:
First, absent affirmative action, the subject bill could raise serious impedi-
ments for the United States in meeting its obligations under existing treaty
and agreement obligations;
1117
