[354]
April 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
We had a congressional committee headed by Congressman Sonny Mont-
gomery of Mississippi-some Democrats, some Republicans. They wanted to go
to North Vietnam to try and find any evidence concerning MIA's. We approved
of that. They went over. They talked to the responsible North Vietnamese
officials. They came back and said that the North Vietnamese were interested in
some movement toward normalization.
I wrote back and said we are primarily interested in MIA's. We are willing to
discuss some humanitarian efforts. For example, I let some-I think it was the
Friends-take some food over there, but I never said that we were going to
normalize relations or recognize the North Vietnamese. This was a report from
the committee that said that they, the North Vietnamese, were interested in a
normalization of relations.
We are not committed. As far as I can see, there is no prospect of it, and there
is nothing that would convince me otherwise. We are interested and will do,
below that level, anything to get our MIA's back.
Q. Has anything happened on that in that area, sir?
THE PRESIDENT. On what? The MIA?
Q. On the MIA's.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, there is nothing specific. The congressional committee
brought back, I think it was the remains of four. And when a staff member or
several from the Senate committee went over to, I think it was Cambodia or
Hanoi, they brought back the remains of several others. But there is nothing
beyond those specifics thus far.
U.S. IMAGE IN THE WORLD
[8.] Q. Mr. President, I'm Eldon Campbell, a former broadcaster-I am now
with the Hook Drug Company. Chris has just led you into the foreign field with
his question.
Now that you are responsible for all of us in this country, from your position,
do you believe that it is our Government or the people that are afraid to defend
this 200-year-old dream on the world stage? I refer exactly to the fact that since
World War II, we have had an absolute sequence of non-victories.
THE PRESIDENT. I wouldn't say that we have had a sequence of non-victories.
As a matter of fact, the position of the United States today, as we look around the
world, I think, is a good one. We didn't do well in Vietnam. We didn't do well
in the incident in Angola, but that was a lack of will on the part of Congress.
But other than those incidents, I think the United States is strong and more
'Society of Friends, commonly known as Quakers.
1166
