June 28
[621]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
improved the situation in those countries where economic recovery is still rela-
tively weak.
Our determination in recent months to avoid excessive stimulation of our
economies and new impediments to trade and capital movements as contributed
to the soundness and breadth of this recovery. As a result, restoration of bal-
anced growth is within our grasp. We do not intend to lose this opportunity.
Our objective now is to manage effectively a transition to expansion which
will be sustainable, which will reduce the high level of unemployment which
persists in many countries and will not jeopardize our common aim of avoiding
a new wave of inflation. That will call for an increase in productive investment
and for partnership among all groups within our societies. This will involve
acceptance, in accordance with our individual needs and circumstances, of a
restoration of better balance in public finance, as well as of disciplined measures in
the fiscal area and in the field of monetary policy and in some cases supple-
mentary policies, including incomes policy. The formulation of such policies,
in the context of growing interdependence, is not possible without taking into
account the course of economic activity in other countries. With the right com-
bination of policies we believe that we can achieve our objectives of orderly and
sustained expansion, reducing unemployment and renewed progress toward
our common goal of eliminating the problem of inflation. Sustained economic
expansion and the resultant increase in individual well-being cannot be achieved
in the context of high rates of inflation.
At the meeting last November, we resolved differences on structural reform
of the international monetary system and agreed to promote a stable system of
exchange rates which emphasized the prerequisite of developing stable underly-
ing economic financial conditions.
With those objectives in mind, we reached specific understandings, which
made a substantial contribution to the IMF meeting in Jamaica. Early legisla-
tive ratification of these agreements by all concerned is desirable. We agreed to
improve cooperation in order to further our ability to counter disorderly mar-
ket conditions and increase our understanding of economic problems and the
corrective policies that are needed. We will continue to build on this structure
of consultations.
Since November, the relationship between the dollar and most of the main
currencies has been remarkably stable. However, some currencies have suffered
substantial fluctuations.
The needed stability in underlying economic and financial conditions clearly
has not yet been restored. Our commitment to deliberate, orderly and sustained
1923
