April 30
[409]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
the trade agreement rates at the close of business April 30, 1976. I have deter-
mined that these actions are in the national interest of the United States.
Since May 1, 1972, the U.S. earthenware industry has made substantial ecc
nomic adjustments to import competition. Profit and productivity levels have
increased. The labor force is more efficiently utilized and the industry is more
automated. However this adjustment process is not yet complete. Additional
capital improvements are needed to complete this process.
The major product of the U.S. industry is earthen dinnerware. Many earthen
dinnerware producers are located in areas of economic depression and high
unemployment. The immediate termination of all escape action duties on
earthen dinnerware and certain other tableware that competes with earthen
dinnerware would adversely affect the industry's efforts to adjust to import
competition and would be detrimental to our national employment policies.
Since the purpose of escape action import relief is to provide temporary assist-
ance to domestic producers to adjust to such competition, I am ending the tariff
increases on those items that I determine to have adjusted to competition.
Since the Kennedy Round of trade negotiations, when the U.S. Tariff sched-
ules of earthen and china table and kitchen articles were last negotiated, duty
rate disparities have resulted in tariff loopholes, and currency changes and infla-
tion have made many of the categories in this schedule obsolete. I am directing
you, therefore, as the Special Representative for Trade Negotiations, to review
the classification and rates of duty on dinnerware and related articles (Schedule
5, Part 2, Subpart C of the Tariff Schedules of the United States) to determine
if changes are necessary to close tariff loopholes and change obsolete descrip-
tions brought about by currency changes and inflation, and to enter into nego-
tiations to make any changes you consider necessary.
This determination is to be published in the FEDERAL Register.
GERALD R. FORD
NOTE: The President's memorandum is printed in the Federal Register of Tuesday, May 4, 1976 (41 FR
18401).
1401
