[461]
May 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
American automobile plants. I can assure you that the Department of Labor,
the Federal Mediation Service, are working on the problem, but a comment
saying yes in this situation, I think, would be more harmful than helpful in
the negotiations that are going on at the present time.
POSSIBLE DEMOCRATIC PRESIDENTIAL NOMINEE
GOVERNOR MILLIKEN. Who, in your opinion, will be the Democratic nominee
for the Presidency?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, better than a year ago I started campaigning for
Hubert. But I became less and less confident of my competence as Jimmy Carter
sort of swept the field.
But what I understand developed in Nebraska yesterday, in Jimmy's case,
we might have a whole new ballgame. So, depending on what happens in
Maryland, where I am told by my Democratic friends Governor Brown might
win and Carter lose, they could end up, as I suspected they might, with a
brokered convention and Hubert, under those circumstances, I think, would
emerge.
He is a good friend of mine. We have totally different ideologies, as far as
domestic matters are concerned, but a Ford-Humphrey contest would be a
very healthy one for this country.
REPUBLICAN VICE-PRESIDENTIAL RUNNING MATE
GOVERNOR MILLIKEN. There are three questions, and I will quickly run
through them because they relate to the same subject.
What specific attributes will you look for in selecting a Vice President? Do
you look favorably on Senator Brooke as a Vice-Presidential possibility Would
you consider having a woman as a running mate should you win the nomina-
tion? You can see some sentiment being expressed out there.
THE PRESIDENT. Governor, Bill, the two names that have-well, the one name
that has been mentioned, Senator Brooke, along with John Connally, Howard
Baker, Bill Brock, a number of Republican Governors-they are all people of
great competence and potential strength to build a ticket. I think it is very pre-
mature for me to indicate that I would lean this way or lean that way. There is
plenty of time left between now and mid-August, and I think we're just
fortunate that we have people like those that I have mentioned.
Since the last question indicated would I be receptive to a woman on the
ticket, I've been asked that question before and I have said that someone like the
Secretary of HUD, Housing and Urban Development, Carla Hills, certainly
1542
