May 22
[505]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Angola, an increased Soviet involvement accelerated the trends toward radical-
ism and violence in southern Africa. So, I sent Secretary Kissinger on another
mission. This time not to restore peace but to try to prevent a race war from
breaking out.
The cooperative programs he proposed for economic aid were important, but
more important was the message to black Africans that America cares, that
we oppose domination of that continent by any outside power, and that we sup-
port for their new nations the same principles we proclaimed for our own 200
years ago—self-determination, majority rule, and the full protection of minority
rights.
If anybody cautioned me that taking prompt diplomatic countermeasures to
check Soviet involvement and Cuban adventurism in southern Africa would
have a political spinoff at home, I didn't listen very long. We did what was
right, what was necessary, and there was no time to lose. So far, it has worked
out well, and Secretary Kissinger deserves credit instead of criticism.
I could list a lot of other foreign policy programs, and the daily decisions that
they bring to the Oval Office, but the long and short of it is United States foreign
policy is a tough job, one that goes on all the time and can't be put on the back
burner every time we have one of our free elections every 4 years.
It isn't a job for babes, and it isn't a job for bullies. When I first became your
President 22 months ago, I pledged to all nations, friend and foe alike, an unin-
terrupted and sincere search fo peace. I will neither retreat nor mark time nor
shorten my stride in continuing that search.
I promised that America would remain strong and united but that our
strength would remain dedicated to the safety and to the sanity of the entire
family of man, as well as to our own precious freedom. The modernized and
reinforced military forces and weapons systems I have proposed in my two
record defense budgets will be dedicated to freedom and sanity as long as I am
President.
I remember President Eisenhower saying that only the brave are strong and
only the strong are free. And I also remember President Kennedy saying that
cold January day, we must never negotiate from fear, but we must never fear to
negotiate.
When the United States has serious disagreements with other sovereign na-
tions, we have really only two choices-to fight about it or to talk about it.
Threats are not only risky but rather old-fashioned in today's world. I will not
hesitate to use force when it is clearly required to protect American lives and
American interests, but I will make no threats I cannot carry out in full com-
1649
