[330]
April 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
in that attempt we have done. I might say to the Congress if they send down
some more bills that bust the budget like that, we will veto them again and
again and again, period.
Now, let's talk about where our country-and I speak of it as our country
because 215 million Americans have a great stake not only in the peace we have
but in the peace that we want to keep, not only in the liberty we have and the
freedom we cherish at this time but the freedom and liberty that we want for
these young people that I see in the audience here tonight.
The United States today, and I say this with firmness and very direct-
talking to you in the way that I think you understand-the United States of
America is unsurpassed in military capability, and we are going to keep it
that way.
If we take a broad look at this country with an unsurpassed military capability,
with the tremendous industrial base and capacity that we have, with the agri-
cultural production that is by any standards the greatest in the history of the
world, when we look at our scientific and technological progress, our superiority
in these areas, and when you add that important ingredient of moral and spiri-
tual and religious dedication, the United States of America is number one. And
we are going to keep it there.
As I look around this wonderful crowd-and it is an inspiration to be here-
I just know that all of you represent the finest in all of our society out of 215
million Americans. You are strong, you are dedicated, you believe in our system
of government, you believe in our economic system. You don't want a handout
from the Federal Government, you want your Government to create the en-
vironment and the atmosphere that makes us great in the future like it has been
in the past.
One of the basic truths that I think we all have to understand-and this audi-
ence I know feels as I do that basic truth is: A government big enough to give
us everything we want is a government big enough to take from us everything
we have.
So, we want our Government to create the atmosphere that gives all of you
in Amarillo, and all of your fellow Americans all over the country, the oppor-
tunity and yet the responsibility to make America a better and better country.
But, in the meantime, we should stand tall and strong and say we are proud to
be Americans and we are proud of America.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:02 p.m. at the
Amarillo Air Terminal. In his opening remarks, he
referred to Senator John G. Tower, chairman of
the Texas President Ford Committee, and Mayor
John C. Drummond of Amarillo.
1096
