April 22
[352]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
It is a pleasure to be here. Now I will be delighted to and pleased to answer
your questions.
QUESTIONS
THE ECONOMY
[1.] Q. Mr. President, recent improvements notwithstanding, this country
still suffers higher rates of inflation and higher unemployment than 10 years
ago or 20 years ago. It is cheering news, of course, that the state of the national
economy is improving. I should like to attribute this improvement partially
to the fact that in college you, Mr. President, majored in economics. The
question I pose: Why do you not pursue your proposals which would expand
productive capacity and thereby could create more jobs, more profits, and
more tax revenue?
For instance, you have proposed deregulation. You have proposed, Mr. Presi-
dent, among many others, the deregulation of national airlines to enhance air
travel at lower prices as it happened in the States of California and Texas—
no actions.
Did you know, for example, that in Pittsburgh the manager of a dairy
cooperative was sentenced to jail because he sold milk 15 cents cheaper and
paid more to farmers than other dairies? To make matters worse, this is hap-
pening when we are fighting inflation.
Mr. President, I fully agree, and this audience fully agrees with you, that
the maze of regulation restrains the productive capacity of this Nation. So,
Mr. President, my question is, since you have difficulties in bringing about
the general Ford economic policies, why don't you tell the American people
in detail about this confusing and unpleasant matter? Just because ordinary
politicians evade economic issues, economic discussion, there is no reason for
you to do so.
The President. Professor, let me very quickly give some background. When
I became President, the rate of inflation was 12 to 13 to 14 percent, and now
that we are down for the first 4 months of this year to 2.9 percent we must have
been doing something right.
But we are not doing as well as we must do, and that is why I had recom-
mended to the Congress last year in the State of the Union Message that we
cut taxes and that we restrain spending. And if the Congress would follow
the recommendations that I made last year for a $28 billion tax reduction, 75
percent of it to go to individuals so they could have more money to spend
1151
