July 7
[656]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
which this Congress has passed or is considering. Most are intended to enhance
the power of the Congress over the detailed execution of the laws at the expense
of the President's authority. I have consistently opposed legislation containing
these provisions, and will continue to oppose actions that constitute a legislative
encroachment on the Executive branch.
I urge the Congress to reconsider H.R. 12567 and to pass a bill I can accept so
that it will be possible for the National Fire Prevention and Control Adminis-
tration to proceed with its important work.
The White House,
July 7, 1976.
GERALD R. FORD
NOTE: The bill was referred to the House Science and Technology Committee on July 19, and no further
action was taken.
656
Toasts of the President and Queen Elizabeth II of the
United Kingdom. July 7, 1976
Your Majesty, Your Royal Highness, distinguished guests:
We are deeply honored to have you, and Prince Philip with you, this evening.
On behalf of all Americans, Mrs. Ford and I take the greatest pleasure in extend-
ing the hospitality of the United States to you and your party who are visiting
us.
Your Majesty, this evening we honor a very remarkable relationship between
two sovereign nations. During our 200 years as an independent nation, the
United States has never forgotten its British heritage. Nearly four centuries ago,
the British came to a wilderness and built a new civilization on British custom,
British fortitude, British law, and British government.
Our Founding Fathers served in British colonial legislatures, fought in British
military forces, and learned representative self-government from British books
and practice. Yet, for all this, the colonists from England and other lands cre-
ated in America a civilization different from that of the mother country.
Inevitably, we dissolved the political bands that connected us. The United
States won independence and established a nation that adapted the best of
British traditions to the American climate and to the American character. Our
reconciliation, our friendship and firm alliance seem, in retrospect, to have been
1985
