[553]
June 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
world and particularly in the West. Spain is a part, geographically as well as
historically, of Europe and the transatlantic community.
Your Majesty, in your remarks upon arrival at the White House yesterday
you expressed the wish that your visit would contribute to reinforcing the bonds
of friendship between us for the food of our two countries and all those who
aspire to obtain the ideals of faith, freedom, and justice. Speaking for all
here, I would assure you beyond any doubt that your wish has been realized. Our
discussions at the White House, your address to the United States Congress, and
your participation, together with your gracious Queen, in our Bicentennial cele-
bration has marked improvement, has significantly improved and helped im-
measurably and is a milestone in the relations between our two countries.
We wish you well as you continue your visit tomorrow to New York City,
and we look forward to your next visit to Washington, which we hope and
trust will be very soon.
Your Majesties, I propose a toast to you and to all of the Spanish people and
to our continuing friendship and good relations.
NOTE The President spoke at approximately 9:50
pm. at the Spanish Embassy in response to the
following toast proposed by King Juan Carlos:
Mr. President, Mrs. Ford, both the Queen and
I wish to express to you our deep gratitude for
all the kindness we have received during our
short stay in your capital. The hours we have
lived in this city, where one feels the throb of
the world's pulse, have been fascinating, indeed.
When yesterday morning I addressed Congress
in a memorable Joint Session, and I saw in front
of me the distinguished Members of the Senate
and of the House of Representatives. I thought
about the vast historical treasure of our common
heritage.
Mr. President, I can't help if I am breaking
what protocol means, I would like to go on with
my speech in English.
For, in effect, South Carolina, Georgia, Florida,
Alabama, Mississippi, Louisiana, Missouri. Iowa,
Minnesota, Arizona, Colorado, Utah, New Mexico,
California, Oregon, and Texas-that is to say, 16
of the 50 States of the Union-were lands dis-
covered, travel:d over, occupied, or civilized to a
greater or lesser extent by Spain and belonged at
one time to the Spanish crown, but not any
more.
Forgive me. Mr. President, for listing these
States one by one. I only do so out of genuine
pride. The placenames of thousands of cities,
mountains, valleys, and rivers of this beautiful
America still reflect the traces of our forefathers-
conquerors or missionaries who have left their
words, their names, their churches, and their mis-
sions and almost always their ashes to be merged
into the future destiny of your great country be-
fore it was born. How can I not be moved as
King of Spain, moved and satisfied to have visited
you on my hrst official trip abroad
انا ،
Mr. President, this visit i mine is necessarily
short against my will Once again, thank you.
We hope to see i one day in the not time
distant future, in
Country that you alreads
know. The hundreds of thousands of Americans
that go to Spain every year are welcomed as sin-
cere and openminded friends, who, as soon as they
set foot there with their fresh spontaneity, give us
a breath of independent thought and a token of
truly heartfelt friendship.
Mr. President, I would like to raise, ladies and
gentlemen. my cup to the health of President
Ford and Mrs. Ford and for the friendship between
Spain and the United States of America and the
people of both countries
Mr. President.
1784
