[580]
June 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
as possible, so we could whip inflation and get more jobs in the industrial de-
mocracies of this country. That meeting was helpful, beneficial. It was the kind
of a meeting that was beating the problem before it became a crisis.
The meeting we're going to down in Puerto Rico in a couple of weeks is the
kind of a meeting that is going to react ahead of a crisis and not wait until a
crisis occurs, and that makes sense.
Let me just conclude with this. As far as foreign policy is concerned, we have
got the peace, we are going to keep it, and I remind you tonight of two things:
The United States has no American fighting forces on any battlefield anyplace
in the world. Our American forces there are for peace and not for war. I might
say that the Ford administration is not going to assign any U.S. troops to
southern Africa.
But now, let me make a little different pitch, if I could. You have got a big
decision to make tomorrow, all of you who are eligible to vote. You have got to
decide, if you are a Democrat, who you are going to select in that ballgame. But
if you are going to vote in the Republican primary tomorrow, I want you to take
a look at my record-peace, prosperity, the restoration of trust. It is a record.
And, furthermore, I think that if I am the nominee leading the party that I
represent, I can be elected and I can carry on the record for the next 4 years.
One other fact: If I am the nominee-and I expect to be--I can help restore
some balance in the United States Congress, in the House as well as in the
Senate. I think President Jerry Ford being the Republican nominee can help
Bob Taft get reelected to the United States Senate. Let me assure you for the
benefit of Ohio and the United States, he darn well better be reelected to the
United States Senate.
But let me add this: The Congress needs some balance, and I think it needs
some changes. I think the Congress can do a better job, and I spent 26-plus
years there, and I think we need some better balance and some new faces.
And let me say this: We can get that if President Ford is leading the Republican
ticket.
You know as much as I happen to believe in a healthy and prosperous
automobile industry-coming from Michigan that's almost an absolutely
mandatory point of view to have—but I don't think 1976 is the year that you
ought to trade in a reliable Ford for a flashier model. [Laughter]
And one other point: You know, there is a school down in Columbus that
has been giving my alma mater a hard time. I saw Woody Hayes' the other
Head coach of the Ohio State University football team.
1852
