April 28
[380]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Thank you all very, very much. It's nice to see you.
The exchange began at 12:10 p.m. at Carswell Air Force Base.
380
Remarks in Fort Worth at the Fort Worth-Tarrant County
Bar Association Luncheon. April 28, 1976
Dick Brown, Senator Tower, John Lawrence, Bill David, Loren Hanson, Judge
Brown, members of the judiciary, our reverent members from the various
churches of this community, ladies and gentlemen:
At the outset, let me express my deepest appreciation to the Southwest High
School Band and to the Castleberry High School Choir. Thank you, both of you.
It is a great privilege and a very high honor to have the opportunity to be here
this afternoon before the distinguished members of the Fort Worth/Tarrant
County Bar Association, Federal Bar Association, and the Forth Worth/Tarrant
County Young Lawyers Association, and I thank you from the bottom of my
heart for this opportunity to join you on this occasion.
It is a very special privilege to be speaking just 2 days before we celebrate
Law Day all across the United States. The rule of law is the very foundation of
our rational society, and the rule of law created by the people, which the people
willingly obey, is central to a free and a democratic society.
In our Bicentennial Year, Law Day takes on a very special significance, for
our Founding Fathers in establishing this country dared to put the ultimate
authority into the hands of those described in the first three words of the Con-
stitution: "We the people...."
Not all men accepted this idea. Thomas Jefferson, in his first inaugural ad-
dress recognized that some honest men feared a republican government could
not be strong, but Thomas Jefferson disagreed with them. He believed this to
be the strongest government on Earth. He said, and I quote: "I believe it the
only one where every man, at the call of law would fly to the standard of the
law, and would meet [every] invasion of the public order as his own personal
concern."
Jefferson touched the very heart of our national fate. He said history would
tell whether men could be trusted to govern themselves, and history has its
answer.
Two centuries later, the United States of America is still a country where
the people make the laws and the people obey them, and the United States of
1265
