[558]
June 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
558
Statement on Signing the Small Business Omnibus Bill.
June 4, 1976
I AM today signing S. 2498, an omnibus bill which affects a number of Small
Business Administration (SBA) programs. I strongly favor many provisions of
this bill which will immediately help small businesses. For example, increases
in the maximum loan limit per borrower for certain SBA business loan programs
are needed to compensate for the higher cost of capital plant and equipment.
While, on balance, I favor this bill, three parts of this legislation trouble me.
First, section 102 would authorize the SBA to guarantee small business leases
of pollution control facilities from State or local public bodies. To finance these
facilities, State or local authorities would issue tax-exempt obligations secured
by the SBA-guaranteed lease.
I have consistently opposed the combination of a Federal guarantee and a
tax-exempt security. And Congress, over the past 6 years, has also recognized this
problem by enacting at least 12 separate statutes which preclude guarantees of
tax-exempt securities. The combination of Federal guarantees with tax-exempt
bonds increases the revenue loss to the U.S. Government while primarily bene-
fiting the high-income purchasers of these bonds rather than small businesses.
In addition, the provision of a Federal guarantee of tax-exempt bonds creates
a security which would be more attractive in the capital markets than direct
obligations of the U.S. Treasury. Also, Federal guarantees of tax-exempt obliga-
tions add to the pressures on the municipal bond market by creating a security
which is superior to all other tax-exempt securities issued by States and local
governments. The result could be higher borrowing costs for States and local
governmental units, which must finance schools, roads, hospitals, and other
essential public facilities.
I share the congressional concern that small business needs Federal assistance
to comply with pollution control requirements. But this is not the best way to do
it. A better way to provide small business with access to financing for pollution
control facilities is through the SBA's water and air pollution control loan pro-
grams. Although these relatively new programs have been adequately funded
in fiscal years 1976 and 1977, small business has not yet had the opportunity to
use them fully. I am therefore directing the SBA to take prompt and vigorous
action to ensure that these loan programs are made fully accessible to the small
business community by working with the Environmental Protection Agency
1790
