[523]
May 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
tained, and has a capability of maintaining peace in the future. And when you
look at the policy of this country at the present time, we have achieved it, we are
maintaining it, and we have, I think, the opportunity to continue the mainte-
nance of peace.
So, when you have a good policy and the person responsible for its execution-
I don't think you ought to break up a good team. And I don't intend to let Secre-
tary Kissinger go, because I think he has been a darned good Secretary of State.
REASONS FOR VOTING FOR PRESIDENT FORD
[4.] Q. Mr. President, I was going to ask a question about Secretary Kis-
singer, but I think I will change it in view of your answer, because you have
already answered it.
Why should the people, especially the Republicans of California, vote for
President Ford instead of Governor Reagan?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I appreciate the change of question that you-
[laughter]—well, my answer is very straightforward and very simple. In the
22 months that I have been President, I have turned the economy around, and
the situation was very serious when I became President-inflation, 12 percent;
we were on the precipice of a serious economic recession. The record shows that
we have turned the recession around so we are moving in the right direction, both
from the point of view of employment and unemployment. And certainly we
have made great strides and progress in combating inflation. We have ended a
drastic and serious and frustrating war in Vietnam.
And the prospects for peace in the future, I think, have never been better. We
have the alliance of our friends in Europe and the Pacific and we have the respect
of our adversaries. And certainly, the open door and candid and forthright poli-
cies we have had in the White House since I have been President, in my judg
ment, justify another 4 years for Jerry Ford.
ANGOLA
[5.] Q. Mr. President, it is nice to see you, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. Nice to see you again, Dan [Dan Ritter, Long Beach
Independent Press Telegram].
Q. Thank you.
Mr. President, you said that Congress deliberately let Soviet influence spread
into Angola. What do you believe Congress should have done to stop that?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, prior to the Soviet massive intervention and prior to the
Cuban intervention, with some 12,000 to 15,000 military personnel, there were
1710
