[325]
April 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
QUESTIONS
ILLEGAL MEXICAN ALIENS
[1] Q. Welcome to Texas, Mr. President. The Dallas-Fort Worth Sigma
Delta Chi is pleased to have this chance to ask you a few questions.
The first question is, last night you spoke about stopping the flow of illegal
drugs across the Mexican border. What is your administration doing to stop the
flow of illegal immigrants across the border?
THE PRESIDENT. First, in the budget that I submitted for fiscal year 1977, we
have increased the funds and will make available more personnel to work with
local authorities. I have discussed the problem with the President of Mexico,
President Echeverría.
The top legal authorities in this country have continued their work with the
authorities on a comparable level in Mexico. It is a very serious matter, and we
are doing our utmost in every way possible to prevent the flow of illegal aliens
into the United States.
PANAMA CANAL NEGOTIATIONS
[2] Q. Mr. President, a few weeks ago, Deputy Secretary of Defense Bill
Clements was in Dallas, and at a press conference he was asked a question about
the Panama Canal negotiations. He said that there is a possibility that those nego-
tiations might result in a partnership between the United States and Panama
in the operation and defense of that canal. Is there such a possibility?
THE PRESIDENT. I think it is premature to come to any conclusion as to what
might be the final resolution of the long, longstanding differences between the
United States and Panama. Three Presidents have had representatives nego-
tiating on this very controversial issue.
I can simply say—and say it very emphatically-that the United States will
never give up its defense rights to the Panama Canal and will never give up its
operational rights as far as Panama is concerned. Since there is no resolution
today, I don't think I should prejudge any detailed, final settlement in this
conflict or controversy. I can assure everybody in the United States that we
will protect defense and operational responsibilities as far as the Panama Canal
is concerned.
PARDON REQUESTS FOR WATERGATE CONSPIRATORS
[3.] Q. Mr. President, if requested, will you commute the sentences of or
pardon any other Watergate conspirators?
1066
