[512]
May 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
Now, if I had to sum up the record of my administration in just a few words
it would be peace, which we have achieved and we're maintaining; prosperity,
which we are accomplishing; and trust and confidence of the American people.
Today, America is at peace. Less than a year ago we were still at war. Today,
we are at peace, and there are no American boys fighting anywhere on the face
of the globe, and I intend to keep it that way.
I will maintain that peace, secure that peace through strength and persever-
ance, and leave that legacy of peace for our children and our grandchildren. We
will accomplish it and pursue it because we have the military capability to carry
out any mission that is required for the deterrence of aggression or to, under any
circumstance, protect our national security.
Let me say the continuance of my policies of cutting your taxes, expanding
the private economy, reducing bureaucracy and useless regulation, and restrain-
ing spending these are the hallmarks of the Ford administration.
If you look back at the record of the last 22 months, my policies have brought
us from the depths of the recession to a sustained recovery, and will ensure that
runaway inflation never again robs us or our loved ones of the rewards of honest
work and lifetime savings.
Let me ask you, do you recall in August of 1974 the cost of living was at a rate
of 12 percent or higher? And it is good to report to you that for the first 4 months
of 1976 the cost of living is rising at a rate of 3 percent or less. That's a 75-percent
reduction in the cost of living. I think that's a darned good record that we should
be proud of.
You will recall that shortly after I took office there were those prophets of
gloom and doom who were saying that we were about to have a depression, that
unemployment would go over 10 percent, that we had to do something with
a quick-fix action, that the Congress had to spend more and more money with
bigger and bigger deficits. I decided that wasn't the right course of action. I
felt there was a better answer-to put a great deal of more faith and trust in the
great economic system that has taken this country from 13 poor, struggling
Colonies to the greatest nation in the history of mankind. So, we fought the Con-
gress day in and day out.
Incidentally, I vetoed 49 spending bills; 42 of them have been sustained, sav-
ing the American taxpayer $13 billion. That's a pretty good record. Let me add
as a postscript. If the Congress sends down some more budget-busting bills, I
will veto them again and again and again.
But finally I want to finish my most important job-restoration of trust in
1674
