[485]
May 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
the United States, which they are. We have got peace today, we are going to
keep it, and if you give me 4 more years, we will keep it for 4 more years.
As you know, I had the great privilege of representing the Fifth Congressional
District just a few miles north of here for almost 26 years. The policy that I
followed for that period of time was that we had an open door, we were candid,
we emphasized integrity, we were forthright, we called them as we saw them.
We never promised more than we could deliver, and we delivered everything
we promised. And that is the way we have run the White House for the last
21 months, and that's the way it will be run for the next 48 months if you give
me the support that we need on Tuesday, and the support that we will get
between now and November.
Well, Betty and I can't thank you all enough for being here at Niles and
welcoming us warmly and giving us the opportunity to say a few words to you.
We hope we have earned your support. We believe we have done a good job,
and I ask you for your support next Tuesday so I can be the Republican repre-
sentative in the great contest that will end on November 2.
I've worked hard. We've done the right thing. We've got America on the right
track. We will keep it there. I can assure you that Jerry Ford, if you give me your
support next Tuesday and next November, I won't let you down for the next
4 years.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke from the rear platform
of Amtrak's "Presidential Express" train at the
Amtrak Station in each community on the whistle-
stop tour. At each stop he left the train to greet the
community welcoming committee and members of
the audience.
Following the whistlestop tour, which ended in
Niles, the President traveled by helicopter to Hol-
land, Mich., where he participated in the Tulip
Festival Parade.
486
Remarks on Arrival at Grand Rapids, Michigan. May 15, 1976
LET ME thank all of you for coming out today. Betty and I have had a very,
very thrilling day going from Flint to Niles on a train, and then we just had
a tremendous reception down at Holland at the Tulip Festival. But it's so nice
to be back in Grand Rapids, our hometown. We have the First Mama with
us, and we have Susan. You want a date, Susan? [Laughter]
But as we were flying with the helicopter from Holland over to Grand
Rapids, my memories went back to 1948 when I first made the gamble to run
for Congress from the Fifth Congressional District. And at that time I ap-
1608
