[564]
June 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
City. We have got about 805 delegates. We have got 325 more to go, and if the
State of New Jersey comes up with 67, that is a big push toward that magic
number of 1,130.
Let's look down the road a minute. There is absolutely no question in the
mind of political experts around the country that President Ford can win on
November 2 and that my Republican opponent cannot win on November 2.
Now, let's take a look at history. I can remember very vividly in 1964, going
into that election we had about 190 Republican Members of the House of Rep-
resentatives. We got clobbered in 1964. We lost about 50-some Republican Mem-
bers of the House of Representatives, and we lost some Senators. We now have
only about 145 Republican Members of the House and about 32 Republican
Members of the Senate.
If we have a repetition of 1964, the numbers on the Republican side of the
aisle in the House, as well as in the Senate, will be cut tremendously. We don't
want that, and if President Ford is leading the ticket for the Republican Party,
I can assure you we will pick up Republican Members of the Congress and won't
lose any.
But I think it might even go a little deeper than that. I don't recall the precise
figures in New Jersey, but I suspect that in the 1964 election a lot of New Jersey
freeholders weren't reelected, and I suspect a lot of other New Jersey candidates
lost in 1964.
So, if you want the strength of the party at the local level, at the State level,
and at the congressional level and at the Presidential level, to carry on and do the
kind of a job that you want done, you better get 67 New Jersey delegates for
Jerry Ford on Tuesday.
Now, let me give you a couple of good reasons why I think you can go to
those people that live in your neighborhood, or you people who associate with
your lawyer, doctor, friends, school teachers, or the people that work in any one
of our occupations. We have a job to do in the next 48 hours. You have to sell
people, and you have got to make sure, you have to make positive that they
get to the polls.
Let me summarize briefly why I think I ought to be the Republican candidate
for the Presidency. In 22 months, after inheriting a situation where our economy
was on the downside, where our allies abroad were uncertain, our adversaries
abroad weren't sure whether they could undertake some adventurism, and
where there had been a loss of confidence and trust in the White House, in 22
months we have turned it all around.
We have restored confidence and trust in the White House with an open,
1810
