[380]
April 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
We are now completing the final testing of the world's most modern and
capable strategic bomber, the B-1. I budgeted in that budget we sent to Capitol
Hill in January over 1½ billion dollars for the B-1 production in fiscal year 1977.
We are accelerating our work on a new intercontinental ballistic missile for
the 1980's. We are developing a new use missile for both air and naval forces.
Nor does our efforts stop with weapons, for we are also extending our Army
divisions from 13 to 16 divisions. I pledge to every one of you and all others of
the 215 million Americans that we will keep America strong, not strong for the
sake of war, but strong for the sake of peace, which we now have.
We will continue this policy, this program of peace through strength and
at the same time we will maintain our international leadership, negotiating
wherever possible to reduce the level of tensions in the world. There are no
easy answers, no simple solutions to the complex problems of personal and na-
tional security. But our determination to solve those problems in itself is a
source of strength. Our warning to those who threaten our security at home or
abroad is the same. Americans will never be intimidated and Americans will
keep the security and the independence that we have had for 200 years, and
we will keep it forever in the future.
Thank you very very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:30 pm. in the
South Exhibition Hall at the Tarrant Counts Con-
vention Center. In his opening remarks, he referred
to Richard Brown, coordinator of the luncheon;
Senator John G. Tower, chairman of the Texas
President Ford Committee: John Lawrence, pres
dent of the Texas Bar Association; William B. David,
master of ceremonies and president of the Fort
Worth Bar Association; Loren Hanson, president-
elect of the Fort Worth-Tarrant Count: Bar Asso-
ciation; and former Judge Jesse Brown of Tarrant
County.
As printed above, this item follows the text of
the White House press release
381
Remarks at a President Ford Committee Reception
in Fort Worth.
April 28, 1976
FIRST, I want to thank the wonderful band over here. I want to thank all of
you who I have had the opportunity to meet and the ones I didn't. I will also
thank you because it's my judgment that we have a first-class organization, and
we have some wonderful volunteers. And with the kind of leadership, with
John Tower and everybody else, and some good programs, some good policies
at home and abroad, I think we can surprise them and win.
My wife Betty came back from a wonderful trip down to Texas. She was en-
thusiastic. My son Jack-he came back from his second trip down here. Of
1270
