May 22
[502]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
America have been saved $13 billion. And I will say parenthetically—not as a
threat, of course—-if the Congress sends me more of those terrible budget-
busting bills, I will veto them again and again and again.
In contrast to what some people were promoting, we pursued a calm, steady
policy to ensure America's economic health, not just for a month or just for an
election year, but over the long haul we had faith that America's system of pri-
vate enterprise would regain its strength.
As a result, we meet here in this lovely park on this great day not in the gloom
of a recession but in the full surge of economic recovery. 87,400,000 Americans
are on jobs today, and this is an alltime record, and it's gone up month-by-month-
by-month for the last 12 months. We have added almost 3,300,000 more jobs to
the American economy since the bottom of the recession-3,300,000 more jobs
than last May and 700,000 more jobs in the last month. I think this is concrete,
significant evidence that we are well on the way to the kind of a recovery that
we want and we will get.
Now, the special nature of Oregon's economy, its heavy reliance on the prod-
ucts of its wonderful forests have caused it to suffer heavily economically. And
I am pleased that Oregon's economy has been steadily improving.
I stopped on the way in from the airport and had the opportunity of going
through one of your great lumber mills. I was pleased to meet some of your
fellow citizens from this community to see how they take the logs and make the
lumber that we use all over the United States. You should be proud of those
products. You should be proud of those people, and we are darned glad to get
what you produce for us throughout the rest of the United States.
I will not be satisfied until every Oregonian and every other American who
wants a job can find a job. That's what we're after. Since August 8 (9) of 1974,
when I was sworn in, inflation has been cut by over half, and I intend to get it
down ever further. You can look at the record-12 percent in August of 1974,
under 3 percent in the first 4 months of 1976.
Now, in addition to America's economic stability and security, we are increas-
ing America's national security. We have the best-equipped, best-trained, best-
led fighting force in the world today, and they are all volunteers. That's a good
record.
To make positive our military strength remains one of the major objectives,
one of the major things that we are trying to do in Washington on your behalf,
we must keep America's strength unsurpassed. And a way to do that, in January
of last year and January of this year, I proposed the two largest military budgets
in the history of America.
1639
