[431]
May 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
431
Remarks at the Awards Dinner of the American Mother's
Committee, Inc. May 5, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Mrs. Lohr, Congresswoman Boggs. Mayor Wash-
ington, Mrs. Marriott, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
Let me thank you for this very beautiful, this very impressive book, which
I understand is inscribed to both Betty and to myself. And I can assure you, as
a stand-in for her, that she wants me to express on her behalf our appreciation
for this thoughtfulness.
I thank not only you, Mrs. Lohr, but the American Mothers Committee and
the many hundreds of people who helped to write-as you told us 500 or more—
and the tremendous job of research that they did on this occasion. It is a very,
very fitting contribution to our Bicentennial.
No birthday is complete without credit to the mother, and on this Nation's
200th birthday, we recall the achievements of all American mothers, past and
present, who contributed to our Nation's progress. Of course, Betty is highly
honored that she was chosen among those from Michigan to be included in
this volume.
And I am proud not just of her own accomplishments but because I know
Betty represents so many American mothers who hold their families together
and help to hold this Nation together. Every mother faces a different set of
challenges. For Betty-if I may add a personal note-I know it was the challenge
of raising four wonderful children when my duties in the Congress often called
for me to be away from home. And Lindy Boggs, I can assure you, can verify
that experience.
As your organization so rightly recognizes, a successful mother must embody
virtues such as love, courage, cheerfulness, patience, compassion, understanding,
and the ability to make a happy home for her family.
Those characteristics are every bit as important today as they have been
throughout our Nation's history and, indeed, throughout the history of civili-
zation. In fact, at a time when the value of family life is being questioned by
some and when the strains of contemporary life seem to threaten the family
structure, I believe those virtues are more important than ever before.
Every American mother bears, as we all know, a great, great responsibility.
As your conference theme states, the past cannot be changed; the future is still
in your power. It is in the family that a child's character is formed and ethical
1474
