[325]
April 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
RESIGNATION OF HOWARD CALLAWAY; TEXAS PRIMARY ELECHON
[18.] Q. Mr. President, a couple of campaign questions. One, in view of what
has been made public thus far in the Callaway affair, do you believe that he
acted too hastily in leaving your campaign?
Secondly, in the Texas primary, I believe your Texas campaign chairman,
Senator Tower, has been quoted as saying that unless Mr. Reagan gains at least
75 percent of the Texas primary vote or delegates, that he should drop out of the
race. Do you agree with that?
THE PRESIDENT. First, the action taken by Bo Callaway was his initiative. He
said that although he expected to be totally cleared, he felt that the possibility of
Senate hearings, the added news media discussion of his circumstances, would
injure my campaign. On the basis of his request, I accepted his resignation. I
think he did, under the circumstances, what was right. And I applaud and I
thank him for his unselfishness in these circumstances.
Number two, as I said, we are doing our utmost to do well here in Texas, and
I think we are going to do increasingly better. I think it is premature for me
to make any recommendations to former Governor Reagan; that is a decision
for him to make. So, I am not going to, under any circumstances, advise him.
That is his choice, not mine.
Q. Can you estimate a percentage in the primary?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I don't play the numbers game.
RIGHTS OF AMERICAN CITIZENS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES
[19.] Q. You talked about cooperation from the Mexican Government in
stopping the hard drug flow. What are you doing to get similar cooperation from
that Government in stopping the abuse of U.S. citizens in the Mexican prisons?
THE PRESIDENT. We, of course, expect every foreign government to work with
us in the protection of the rights of American citizens. We have, through the
proper channels in this case, indicated our deep concern for the protection of the
rights of American citizens in Mexico.
On the other hand, we repeatedly tell Americans who go to other countries
that they have to live up to the laws of those countries. It's a two-way street. We
don't condone violence in this country in violation of our laws, and I don't think
we should condone violence in other countries in violation of their laws.
But I can assure you, that through proper channels, we have indicated very
strongly that the legitimate rights of all Americans in those countries should be
fully protected. And we will continue that policy.
*See Item 212, footnote 3.
1074
