[525]
May 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
Well, that program has been a tremendous success, and I have talked to Mayor
Hayes about it. I led the fight for that legislation in 1972. A year ago, I asked
the Congress to extend that legislation for another 5 years. It's almost unbe-
lievable that the Congress hasn't acted upon that legislation.
I know that my two former colleagues here in this auditorium today agree
with me. But, if that legislation is not enacted soon, it means that the States-
50 of them, and the local units of government, 39,000 including your great
community of San Jose-will either have to increase taxes or reduce services.
I urge you in every way that you can to stimulate the Congress to move on
this legislation. I am proud of the fact that I fought for it, and I am fighting
for it now, and I don't understand those other Presidential candidates who don't
think it is a good idea. It's good for San Jose, it's good for California, and it's
good for America.
I was also told on the way in that there were some wonderful senior citizens in
this audience here, and I would like to talk to them quite specifically, as well
as talk to some of the people who are about to retire. For too long a time there
has been a disposition on the part of the Congress to duck the problem that we
face as to the financial integrity of the Social Security Trust Fund.
When I looked at the figures last November and December it was obvious
to me that we had to face up to the fact that in a 12-month period, right now,
there will be a $3.5 billion deficit between revenues on the one hand and expendi-
tures and benefits on the other. And if we don't act affirmatively and face up
to the hard issue, it means that next year there will be a $4 billion deficit and the
following year it will be over $4 billion. This trust fund could soon come down
to zero.
I think every public official in this country owes an obligation to our older
citizens because they have earned what they get from the Social Security Trust
Fund, and we won't let you down. Those politicians who duck the issue I think
are not playing fair and square with the 33 million Americans who are today
receiving benefits and the millions and millions of other Americans who are
paying and expect their government to live up to its obligation.
As long as I am President, we are going to find a way to keep our commitment
to those under social security. I assure you of that. As I finish, let me ask each
and every one of you, that I hope and trust that the record I have carried out for
the last 22 months would justify your support. We have returned peace to
America. We have the capability militarily and diplomatically to ensure that
peace. We have turned our economy around, and we are on the upswing of a
1718
