May 3
[420]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
QUESTIONS
U.S. DEFENSE CAPABILITY
[1.] Q. Mr. President, I'm a ninth grade social studies teacher at Trussville
Junior High School, and my students asked me to ask you this question: Are
we number one in defense or is the U.S.S.R., as some candidates are saying?
THE PRESIDENT. I can say categorically, most emphatically, that the Soviet
Union is not ahead of the United States. I might add, I know of no active duty
military leader in this country who will say that the Soviet Union is ahead; all
say that we have every military capability-Army, Navy, Air Force, and Ma-
rines—that are fully qualified, fully capable to carry out their assigned missions
to deter aggression, to keep the peace, and to protect our national security.
FEDERAL ASSISTANCE FOR EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES
[2.] Q. Mr. President, as a surgeon here at the medical center, I would like to
ask you about a program in HEW. I'm with the medical school here and very
concerned with emergency medical services. On the stage with you is the mayor
of Birmingham and Commissioner Gloor, of our county commission, who have
devoted a great deal of time and money to improving emergency medical
services.
We're concerned with the placement of emergency medical services in the
health revenue sharing block grants to States and fear that we'll bury it there,
there we will not be able to get it going in the more rural areas of our State,
in particular. Is there any possibility you may be able to pull this out of the
block grant like you did drug abuse?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me say at the outset, I am very, very familiar with the
emergency medical program because a very dear friend of mine at home, that
you may know, Dr. Mark Vasu, was one of the originators of this whole pro-
gram throughout the United States. And in Grand Rapids we've had a program
like this for almost 10 years, as I best can recollect.
So, I'm a very dedicated person to the need and necessity and the constructive
benefits of the emergency medical service program. But here's the problem we
face: We have 16 categorical grant programs in the health service area, and
each of those categorical grant programs have their own Federal bureaucracy.
And the inflexibility of handling the money, which is about $16 billion a year, as
I recall—no, $11 billion a year, 16 programs—is that they don't let the local
1451
