[498]
May 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
498
Remarks at a Reception for Members of the American Enterprise
Institute for Public Policy Research. May 19, 1976
Thank you very much, Herman, Paul, and Bill Baroody, and all of the AEI
people and their guests:
It's really nice to be here.
Last night and today-well, they were much better than some Tuesday nights
and Wednesdays we have experienced. [Laughter] I never try to sing the "Vic-
tors," either—[laughter |—because it's a great song. Fortunately, it was written
for Michigan. But it was a night that Betty and I enjoyed probably as much as
any night we have had the opportunity to be in Washington.
If I could just make a personal comment, when the returns came in from
the two counties that I represented for 16 years, then the last 10-there was
a redistricting, to some extent-but the two that I represented for 16 years, I got
85 percent of the votes. That's not bad. You know, you always expect a few
stragglers. [Laughter
But, anyhow, it's nice to be here. I remember very vividly in February of 1974,
when I had the honor of participating as Vice President in the 20-year anniver-
sary of Bill Baroody. In reminiscing about that on the way over and thinking
of the many years that Bill and all of you in AEI have been helpful to me as a
single Congressman, as a Republican leader and, subsequently, as Vice President
and President, I can't say strongly enough how grateful I am for the contribu-
tion of all of you who contribute to AEI and in a meaningful way contribute to
government, whether it's in the executive or the legislative branch.
You should be very proud of the organization and you should be saying to
all of us who are the beneficiaries, we're going to keep it up, because I can say,
as a beneficiary, it was very, very helpful.
I look around the room and I see many people from the academic world who
I have known through AEI over the years. It's a tremendous collection of talent
and the views that have been given to me in one way or another have been
extremely helpful, and they are today.
We do use, and for good reason, the recommendations, whether they're in
housing, whether they're in a multitude of other programs, the concise and very
well laid out alternatives and proposals that come from AEI.
I am just very grateful that this kind of talent is available to us who have the
honor and privilege of serving in government. And let me assure you that
1632
