June 7
[580]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
SOCIAL SECURITY SYSTEM
[5.] Q. Sir, could you comment on the social security retirement benefits
problems, the fact that social security seems to be running out of money?
THE PRESIDENT. The Social Security Trust Fund is now about $40 billion. It
is running a deficit this 12 months of about $4 billion. If nothing is done about
it, the deficit for the next 12 months will be about $4½ billion, and it will finally
get down to zero. Something has to be done about it because millions and mil-
lions of Americans—32 million of them at the present time—have earned and
retired and expect a retirement income. And literally thousands and thousands
and even millions are going to retire in the future, expecting that they have made
an investment by the deduction of their taxes and expect their government to
treat them fairly. It's a situation that has to be met head on.
In January of this year, I recommended a solution. Unfortunately, the Con-
gress had not faced up to it. They are going to pass it off until the next term of
the Congress. They have been doing that far too long. And if we don't do some-
thing about it, we won't be treating fairly either the people who are retired or
the people who are working and expect to retire. So, give me some help and get
the Congress moving on this.
One more. I can't resist this beautiful young lady here.
REPUBLICAN VICE-PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE
[6.] Q. I was just wondering, what kind of person are you looking for for
Vice President?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, Betty tells me I ought to have a gal.
To be serious, I want—and this is the absolute criteria-the person that I select
to be my Vice-Presidential running mate has to be fully capable, totally quali-
fied to be President of the United States. That is number one. After that, we have
a whole range of things that have to be put into the formula.
I think it is premature to make a final selection. We have lots of good Repub-
lican talent, and we will pick a good one, but that person, I can assure you, will
be qualified to be President of the United States. And that is the only basic cri-
teria that has to come.
Thank you all very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:03 p.m. in the
Anderson Arena Memorial Hall. In his opening
remarks, he referred to Dr. Hollis A. Moore, Jr.,
president, and Charles E. Shanklin, president of
the board of trustees, Bowling Green State Univer-
sity.
1855
