June 7
[571]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
that we have the strength and the will to meet any challenge, and therefore,
they're willing to negotiate rather than to confront on the battlefield.
So, when you look at the Ford administration, you say without any hesita-
tion or equivocation we have a record of restoration of trust and confidence. We
have turned the economy around, and we're on the road to jobs. We are on the
road to cutting inflation from 12 percent to 3 percent or less. And that means
that when the wife of a worker goes to the supermarket, instead of an increase
in the cost of food at 12 to 15 percent, which it was when I took office. In 1976,
the cost of food is going to increase no more than 4 percent and mainly at a
rate of 2 to 3 percent.
So, we have had progress in meeting inflation, getting more jobs. Every-
thing that is supposed to be going up is going up, and everything that is supposed
to go down is going down. We're on the road to permanent, healthy progress
in our economy under the Ford administration.
Now let's talk about the bottom line. As Bob Taft indicated, he, as well as I,
remember the tragedy of 1964. I can talk about it in a broader sense, because
until that election of 1964 in the House of Representatives, we had about 185
Republican Members. After the election of 1964, we had 140.
We lost almost 50 Members in the tragedy of 1964. I don't recall how many
Senators we lost, but we went from almost even down to the Democrats having
a 2 to 1 margin. We don't want to repeat that tragedy in 1976.
We want, instead of losing Members, to add to the outstanding delegation
that you have in the State of Ohio. We want Bob Taft reelected, and we want
every one of the Members of your Ohio congressional delegation reelected, and
we want to add a few to that.
I have been talking to Governor Rhodes about some of his problems up
there with the State legislature. I think it would be helpful, and it can be
done with the right leader at the head of the ticket, to give Jim Rhodes some
more help in the State legislature.
What I'm saying is if we have the right Republican candidate for the Presi-
dency, we can have a total Republican victory from the White House down to
the courthouse. That's the way we make our philosophy work in this political
arena. I pledge my best efforts, not only to win—which I believe deeply that I
can—but to work with the State organizations and build the party from the
ground up, so that this philosophy which we hold so dear, this philosophy which
is so good for this country, can prevail for the next 4 years and for the rest of
this century and beyond.
Let me say there is no question in my mind whatsoever that I can be elected,
1829
