June 11
[589]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
589
Remarks to Delegates Attending the Missouri Republican
Convention in Springfield. June 11, 1976
Governor Bond, Senators Tower, Baker, and Dole, Lieutenant Governor Phelps,
Attorney General Danforth, Lowell McCluskey, Gene McNary, Rog Morton,
delegates, and guests:
It's great to be back in Missouri. I love it. As many of you know, I have been
in Missouri a great many times campaigning for Republican candidates for all
offices. As many of you know, I have been in Missouri a great many times to help
raise money so we could have a strong two-party system in the great State of
Missouri. So it's good to be here and to see 1,400 good delegates who are going
to do the right thing for the Republican Party tomorrow.
I would like to take a very few minutes to talk positively and affirmatively
about the record of the Ford administration for the last 22 months. Refresh
your memory just a bit. August of 1974-this country was in serious trouble. For
reasons that we all know, there had been a great loss of confidence in the White
House itself. This country was facing economic chaos in August of 1974. We were
suffering 12 percent or higher inflation. We were on the brink of the worst
economic recession in 40 years. We were still in war. Our allies were uncertain,
and our adversaries were tempted. In the last 22 months, we have turned all
three around.
We have restored confidence and trust in the White House by the fact that we
have had an open, straightforward, candid administration. The door is open to
individuals, the door is open to people who will come in and work with us, bring
us their criticism, their complaints, and their recommendations. The net result
is the White House is trusted. The White House has had a restoration of con-
fidence.
Number two, in the last 12 months we have added 3,700,000 more jobs in
America. Last Friday, the Department of Labor announced that 87,700,000 peo-
ple had jobs, an alltime record in the history of the United States. We should be
proud of it. We have done a good job.
We have gone from 12-percent inflation in 1974 down to 3 percent or less for
the first 5 months of 1976. We have reduced the rate of inflation by 75 percent.
That's a good record.
Let me speak for just a minute on how we have done it. We have done it be-
cause we have held the lid on Federal spending. Most of you know that in the
1869
