[382]
April 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
Q. Mr. President, in talking and following up on Thomas' question here,
are you interested in getting some of the supporters of George Wallace? You
know the Reagan people are going after some of the Wallaceites in this State,
and I just wonder if you feel that you should be getting some of those votes too?
THE PRESIDENT. I carefully stated what I said. I want all independent voters
of Texas and all Democratic voters who traditionally have supported the
Democratic Party who believe in my philosophy. And my philosophy is the
kind that I think, overall, will appeal to most Texans.
Q. Mr. President, you seemed to say this morning that you thought that
Mr. Carter might be replacing Mr. Humphrey as the frontrunner of the
Democrats. Which candidate do you think would be the hardest to beat, Mr.
Humphrey or Mr. Carter?
The President. I always assume the Democrats are a very formidable con-
tender or opposition, and I will wait until the Democrats make the choice.
And I am sure they will make a choice either by the primary or convention
process or in a smoke-filled room, and we will wait and see who they pick.
Q. Mr. President, has John Connally been of any help in advising you what
to say or how to conduct yourself in Texas, and will you be calling him or visit-
ing with him while you are here?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I have met with John Connally on several occasions.
recently and we talked about the political situation in Texas and in the 49 other
States. And when you talk politics with a man as experienced and able as he,
you inevitably gain a bit of advice and counsel. And we are trying to draw on
that help and assistance that he gave without endorsing me.
Q. Mr. President, have you made any better decision in terms of who you
would want as your Vice President?
THE PRESIDENT. No, we still think there is a wonderful reservoir of good
Republican potential candidates for the Vice-Presidency. And it is a little pre-
mature to make any selection at this time.
REPORTER. Thank you very much.
THE PRESIDENT. Nice to see you all.
NOTE: The exchange began at 4:03 p.m. at Intercontinental Airport.
1272
