April 10
[333]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
next year no sales, the next year 5 million tons. You have a sustained, guaranteed
market in the Soviet Union, plus those markets in Japan, plus those markets in
Eastern Europe, plus those markets in Western Europe.
I think this is a good deal, and the temporary suspension that we had in the
sales was necessary to consummate this agreement for a 5-year market of 6 mil-
lion tons or more for the American farmer. I think it was the right thing to do.
I don't think it was harmful in the long run. I think it was beneficial to American
agriculture.
One final aspect of that I would like to make very clear. The allegation has
been made in some quarters that this President capitulated to Mr. George
Meany.ยน There is nothing true about that accusation, and may I use as a good
illustration of my independence from Mr. Meany, I vetoed the common situs
picketing bill, which he wanted very badly.
VICE-PRESIDENTIAL RUNNING MATE
[18.] Q. Could I ask a question?
THE PRESIDENT. You sure may. I couldn't turn you down. [Laughter]
Q. Well, what I wanted to ask was, are you going to have John Connally as
your Vice-Presidential running mate?
THE PRESIDENT. I have to get nominated myself first. But I have said before
and I repeat here, John Connally is a very good personal friend of mine. He has
had a fine public record-6 years as Governor of Texas, Secretary of the Treas-
ury, Secretary of the Navy. He certainly has all the qualifications.
But I hasten to add we have some other outstanding potential candidates,
and John Tower, with his experience, certainly should be one who would qualify
for consideration. But we have others, and I think it is just premature to make
any decision at this time. We are lucky in the Republican Party to have such a
wealth of talent from all over the country, and it will make a good team, let me
assure you.
Thank you very, very much.
Q. Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you all. I have loved being here in Canyon. It has been
a great privilege and pleasure to have an opportunity to try and respond to the
good questions and the wonderful spirit of the West Texas State University
students, faculty, and townspeople of Canyon.
ยน AFL-CIO president.
1113
