June 24
[615]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Concern has been expressed that by submitting this bill at this time, we risk
encouraging those who are resisting court-ordered desegregation sometimes to
the point of violence. Let me state here and now that this administration will
not tolerate unlawful segregation. We will act swiftly and effectively against
anyone who engages in violence. This administration will do whatever it must
to preserve order and to protect the constitutional rights of our citizens.
The purpose of submitting this legislation now is to place the debate on this
controversial issue in the halls of the Congress—a responsible and orderly debate
within the democratic process-and not on the streets of our cities.
I will now sign the two messages—one to the House and one to the Senate---
which will be delivered today along with the proposed legislation.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:40 a.m. in the Oval Office at the White House.
615
Special Message to the Congress Transmitting Proposed School
Busing Legislation. June 24, 1976
To the Congress of the United States:
I address this message to the Congress and through the Congress to all Amer-
icans, on an issue of profound importance to our domestic tranquility and the
future of American education.
Most Americans know this issue as busing-the use of busing to carry out
court-ordered assignment of students to correct illegal segregation in our schools.
In its fullest sense the issue is how we protect the civil rights of all Ameri-
cans without unduly restricting the individual freedom of any American.
It concerns the responsibility of government to provide quality education, and
equality of education, to every American.
It concerns our obligation to eliminate, as swiftly as humanly possible, the
occasions of controversy and division from the fulfillment of this responsibility.
At the outset, let me set forth certain principles governing my judgments and
my actions.
First, for all of my life I have held strong personal feelings against racial dis-
crimination. I do not believe in a segregated society. We are a people of diverse
background, origins and interests; but we are still one people-Americans—and
so must we live.
Second, it is the duty of every President to enforce the law of the land. When I
became President, I took an oath to preserve, protect and defend the Constitution
1909
