April 23
[362]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
ernment more responsive and much more responsible. The dangers of too much
government are clearer today than they have ever been before. We can see those
dangers most clearly in the tremendous cost of big government and in the wide-
spread governmental intrusions in our everyday life.
As part of my effort to hold down the cost of government, I have vetoed 48
bills sent to me by the Congress in the last 20 months and there may be more.
Thirty-nine of those vetoes have been sustained and those 39 vetoes will save you,
the taxpayers of this country, some $13 billion.
We make progress also toward reducing government redtape; the community
development program, I think, is a good example. On my orders Federal regula-
tions for the community development program [Community Development
Act of 1974]-which became law in the fall of 1974—these regulations have
been simplified and reduced from 2,600 pages to just 25 pages. Instead of filing
out five applications totaling over 1,400 pages, a community now has to com-
plete only one 50-page application.
While process and approval of these applications used to average more than
2 years-it is hard to believe but that is the fact-we have reduced that time
now to 2 months. When I say I want to get the government off your back and
out of your hair, it is more than just talk, it is progress. We have already started.
We have a lot more to do to improve the situation, but let me assure you we are
on the job, and we are going to get it done.
I propose, for example, one way I think we can handle the relationship be-
tween the Federal Government, the State and the local units of government
better is the extension of the general revenue sharing program which I like to
think as sort of a hometown do-it-yourself project. The Federal Government
collects the money, distributes it to your State and local units of government, but
your own local officials decide how best to spend that money without any
bureaucrat in Washington telling you the answer, and they have done here at
the local level a very good job without a lot of bureaucratic interference from
the Nation's Capital.
In fact, and this is an amazing statistic, the total cost of Washington's ad-
ministration of this program amounts to only one-eighth of 1 penny of every
dollar spent in the revenue sharing program. That's pretty low administrative
cost by any standard, and that is the kind of a sound, low-cost management pro-
gram we all take pride in.
Under the revenue sharing extension bill that I proposed to the Congress last
year—but this far the Congress has been dilatory in getting anything done—and
they better move because the present law expires December 31—but under the
1193
