[356]
April 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
PUBLIC EMPLOYMENT PROGRAMS
[4.] Q. Mr. President, as the country continues to rebound from the recession
and the jobs programs to train and employ the people are in full operation, and
with the start of the summer jobs program to aid the Nation's young, who were
one of the hardest hit segments of the economy, the question now arises as to.
what will happen in the years immediately following the Presidential election
if, in fact, the private sector does not rebound sufficiently to employ those indi-
viduals now being assisted by the Federal programs. This is asked in light of
the announcements of the gearing down and the ending of many employment
programs by the end of 1977.
THE PRESIDENT. These public service jobs were initiated primarily when we
got into our economic troubles in 1975. I recommended at that time, to meet that
current emergency, a substantial increase in public service employment, adding
to the so-called CETA programs where we have a comprehensive educational
and training program plus the summer youth program.
Now that we are coming out of our economic difficulties, it seems to me that
we do not need to have the emergency program that we required in 1975. On the
other hand, I think we should fully fund the so-called CETA program, which is
an education and training program, not necessarily a public service program,
because there are always instances where individuals have a temporary loss of a
job, they want to be retrained for another kind of employment, and that is what
CETA programs seek to do. And we will fund those programs fully, and we
will continue to fund, as I have ever since I have been President, the summer
youth programs—the cost is around $450 million each year—-and those programs
will be utilized to give the youth of America, many of them in our disadvantaged
areas in major metropolitan areas-those programs will be continued as they
have been in the past.
FUEL ALLOCATION PROGRAMS
[5.] Q. Mr. President, not often does a citizen get a chance to correct the
President of the United States, but I might like to take this opportunity to state
that we did in Evansville give Jerry Sloan to the Bullets, but they didn't want
him, so the Chicago Bulls took him, and they really liked him.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, maybe I was thinking that the Bullets could use him in
the playoffs.
Q. Now, sir, for my question: It is my understanding that the mandatory fuel
allocation program that is administered by the Federal Energy Administration
1176
