May 28
[539]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
THE PRESIDENT. I have that in the Government. [Laughter]
MR. HEDRICK. Some of us like to brag about units, if they build small airplanes.
Those of us who build larger airplanes with higher dollars like to talk about
dollars. So, we now combine and speak both to units and dollars.
Nineteen hundred and seventy-six will be one of our better years-1975 was
one of our better years, and 1976 will be even better than that. As we look to
the future, say 15 years down the road, assuming all things are equal, we look
for it to continue.
THE PRESIDENT. How is the export business? Are we ahead competitively with
other nations in the private industry?
MR. HEDRICK. We are practically the only exporters in general aviation, ac-
tually. So, we are doing a good job. We have some problems in the area of re-
strictive tariffs, which we think are different. We discussed those in detail yes-
terday and at least expressed our opinion.
We feel, for instance, on the cross-licensing or the reciprocating license agree-
ments, we are a little bit too generous and do not trade off the fact that we can
do well enough to get our advantages that we should have in the commerce
section. And we are addressing ourselves to that subject and hoping that we will
have fewer bilateral licensing agreements until we have better bilateral mar-
keting agreements.
THE PRESIDENT. Keep after it, Fred. [Laughter]
MR. HEDRICK. We are not really very shy, sir. [Laughter] We are glad to have
your encouragements.
THE PRESIDENT. It is nice to see you all. I would like to go around and shake
hands.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:16 p.m. in the
Roosevelt Room at the White House where he
announced the revised export control regulations
for general aviation aircraft to the board of di-
539
rectors of the General Aviation Manufacturers
Association, who were in Washington attending
the quarterly meeting of the board.
Memorandum on Civil Service General Schedule Classifications.
May 28, 1976
[Dated May 27, 1976. Released May 28, 1976]
Memorandum for the Heads of Departments and Agencies
Over the past two decades, there has been a gradual but substantial rise in the
average grade of General Schedule employees. Much of this rise is due to the
1761
