[406]
April 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
[At this point, the President proceeded to the Exhibition Hall in the Abilene Civic Center
where he continued the question-and-answer session with the overflow crowd.]
THE PRESIDENT. It is really wonderful to be in Abilene, and I thank all of you,
particularly for coming here and being so warm and responsive and hospitable.
It has been a great 3 days in Texas and to have it climax by this wonderful wel-
come here in Abilene, I can't thank you enough.
I don't know how many CB'ers there are here in the audience. Well, I was
going to say First Mama gives you her very best—[laughter]—and I certainly
want to thank you.
Now, I would be glad to take some questions. Have we got a microphone
that could be used? If not, if somebody will stand up and ask a few questions
I will be delighted to try and respond, but you have to have a loud voice because
I can't hear otherwise. [Laughter]
I understand there are some students here from Hardin-Simmons. You have
got other fine educational institutions here. Anybody from McMurry? And, of
course, Abilene Christian-I know there must be some.
Now, where is that first question? Over here.
DIFFERENCES BETWEEN THE PRESIDENT AND JIMMY CARTER
[10.] Q. What do you believe are the basic difference between Governor
Carter and yourself, some basic differences-[laughter]—besides Democrat and
Republican?
THE PRESIDENT. The question is, what do I think are the basic differences
between Governor Carter and myself.
Well, I know what my record is of 25-plus years in the Congress and 20
months in the Presidency. I must say from what I have read and what I have
heard and what I have heard other Democrats say, I am not sure that I know
where he stands on most of the issues.
So, that being the case, I really can't compare my record or my views or
what we have tried to do when on the major issues that affect this country, both
domestically and internationally, the Governor has not yet spelled out what he
would do or how he would handle the problems either at home or abroad.
THE PRESIDENT'S VIEW OF THE PRESIDENCY
[11] Q. What is it like to be President of the United States?
THE PRESIDENT. This young man asks a question-how do I like being
President of the United States.
1394
