April 28
[383]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
approximately $1.5 million per year. This sum to administer the Davis-Bacon
Act is greater than the cost to administer the entire Federal judiciary system.
Would you support and implement changes to Labor Department regula-
tions to reduce or eliminate these counterproductive administrative costs?
The President. When I was in the Congress-and I feel the same way to-
day-the wage-setting setup was fundamentally unsound. And I can relate it
to my own situation in Michigan when they were trying to set area wage rates,
or even some of the more far-distant upstate areas in Michigan-they would go
back to the labor rates in the city of Detroit. Now that just doesn't make sense.
And I suspect that was true in many other States. I know it was true in the State
of Michigan. I think that is an unrealistic, improper way for those wage rates
to be established under the law that exists.
I tried when I was a Member of the Congress to get it done. We made some
headway. I can't tell you precisely today what the status is, but if it hasn't
changed from what it was 4 or 5 years ago, it better be changed.
TAX REFORM
[4.] Q. Mr. President, we here, all of us, are seriously interested in knowing
if your administration is going to support the real estate and construction in-
dustry in opposing tax reform legislation that would take investment capital
away from the developers and builders who are building the office buildings,
apartments, and shopping centers and other projects that give jobs to millions of
Americans and comprises a substantial portion of the gross national product of
the United States?
THE PRESIDENT. It is my best recollection that the witnesses for the adminis-
tration, when appearing before the House Committee on Ways and Means and
probably the Senate Committee on Finance, opposed the kind of legislation that
you and many others feel would be harmful or detrimental. We went through
this controversy on several occasions when I was in the House of Representa-
tives where the so-called reform tax bill was being promoted. And it is my
best
recollection that those changes were defeated in the House of Representatives
and then the Senate.
My best memory is that the witnesses for this administration take the same
position that you take.
VIOLENCE IN THE CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY
[5.] Q. Mr. President, my question has to do with violence in construction.
The Hobbs Act, passed in 1934, made it a felony for anyone to obstruct interstate
1279
