April 22
[352]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
saving the American taxpayer $13 billion. And let me say that if the Congress
in the future sends down the same kind of irresponsible legislation, we will veto
them again and again and again.
But, President Jones, I won't be satisfied until we match your record and
balance the Federal budget. With your support and a little help from the Con-
gress, I fully intend to balance that Federal budget within 3 years and give the
American taxpayers another long overdue tax reduction.
I can also report to you that the worst economic recession America has suffered
in 40 years has been replaced by a strong and stable economy. Today, in our
economy, everything that is supposed to be going up is going up and everything
that is supposed to be going down is going down. And let me cite you a few
specifics: Today, more Americans are gainfully employed than ever before in
the history of the United States-86,700,000 Americans were working in March
of 1976 and that is over 2,600,000 than were working in America a year ago.
And that is a lot of progress.
At the same time, unemployment is coming down from a high of nearly 9
percent last May to 7½ percent today. That is still not good enough but that is
real progress. And the trend is in the right direction and we are going to keep
it there, and we are going to do better and better in the months ahead.
Real earnings for the American workers are up dramatically over what they
were a year ago. Total retail sales are up more than 17 percent from last year;
auto sales are up 43 percent; furniture and appliance sales are up more than 17
percent; food sales are up more than 9 percent; and general merchandise sales
are up 13 percent.
The most important factor, however, which I think is extremely vital-the
index of consumer confidence is double what it was a year ago. The Commerce
Department announced earlier this week that the gross national product rose at
an annual rate of 7½ percent for the first quarter of 1976. The Consumer Price
Index released just yesterday showed that the annual rate of inflation for the
first 3 months of 1976 was only 2.9 percent―the lowest quarterly inflation rate
since the summer of 1972. Again, that is real progress.
It is very easy to get lost in a sea of statistics when we talk about the economy,
but all of these statistics point to one simple, undeniable fact: We are on the
road to a new prosperity in America and we are not about to be sidetracked
now, particularly by bad legislation from the Congress of the United States.
One of the most important reasons for our economic success in recent months
has been the contribution of what Earl Butz calls the miracle man of the 20th
century, the American farmer. In fact, the last 3 years have been the highest net
1149
