|657|
July 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
Q. Thank you. Now then, why is Mrs. Smith [Mary Louise Smith, chairman,
Republican National Committee] going to the convention as a Ford delegate?
THE PRESIDENT. Because she has an opportunity, like any other citizen of this
country, to run and express her personal views. She is running the national com-
mittee on a very nonpartisan basis between my opponent and myself.
CONSTRUCTION OF TRANS-CANADA GAS PIPELINE
[21.] Q. Mr. President, could we talk about the Alaska pipeline another
time? You are from the Middle West, and when the pipeline act was passed in
Congress-
THE PRESIDENT. I voted for it.
Q. Okay. There was quite a debate, though, about building a trans-Canada
pipeline that would deliver oil to the Middle West where it is needed. There is
still talk about that, and, in fact, there is some legislation. Would you support
legislation to build a pipeline from Valdez | Alaska] across Canada to the Mid-
dle West?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't believe that is an active possibility. I think you are re-
ferring to the possibility of a gas pipeline——
Q. They were going to double-truck it, apparently.
THE PRESIDENT.—from northern Canada or northern Alaska to the Middle
West as one of several alternatives. There are other alternatives that would in-
volve bringing the gas down to the Gulf of Alaska. That matter is before the
Federal Power Commission at the present time. It is also before-in one way or
another-before the comparable agency in the Canadian Government. There is
legislation that is being sponsored which I think is good legislation, that would
expedite the determination as to which route is the preferable one. It would be
legislation much like that which was approved for the delivery of Alaskan oil. If
that gas is badly needed in the United States-and I am not saying on the West
Coast or the Middle West-but I think a decision has to be expedited. And so I
would favor such legislation which would expedite the determination by the
proper authorities as to which route was the better of the two or which is the
best, if there are more than two.
SALT TALKS
[22.] Q. Mr. President, since this is an election year, I wonder if you think
there is not much chance of any startling developments in the area of foreign
affairs, such as a SALT agreement or MBFR, or in any other area? Do you think
it is very difficult to conduct negotiations at a time when frankly the occupancy
1996
