[461]
May 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
of the individual, the individual in our next 100 years. And I would like to
start the first four of it with emphasizing the rights of individuals, whether it is
the right of the individual to participate to a greater degree in our economic
system, the right of an individual to participate as an individual in education
and religion professions.
It seems to me as I travel around the country and meet many people such as
you, this is the yearning that people have. And if I could make a contribution
in that way for the next 4 years, kicking off the next century, that would mean
more to me than anything else.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4-10 p.m. in the
Exhibition Hall at the Roma Hall. In his op ning
remarks, he referred to Ray MacDonald, chairman,
and Russ Swanev, president. Economic Club of De-
trist. 1 William Seien an Assitant to the Prend
for Fonomic Affairs, and Bishop Coleman M.Geher
of the Episcopal Church of Michigan.
462
Remarks at a Public Rally in Birmingham, Michigan.
May 12, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Congressman Bill Broomfield. Governor Milli-
ken, former Governor Romney, Senator Bob Griffin, distinguished Members
of the House of Representatives, Mayor Staples but, more particularly, all of
you wonderful people from the city of Birmingham and Oakland County:
Thank you very, very much. You don't know how nice it is to come back
home on a beautiful day in May and to see so many wonderful people who are
here because they want to hear a story about what we have done and what
we're trying to do and what we intend to do in the next 4 years.
Let me just quickly refresh what we faced when, in August of 1974, I became
President. This country had gone through some very serious economic times
with inflation up to 12 to 14 percent. We were on the brink of a very serious
economic recession, the worst in 40 years. We were on the precipice of unem-
ployment going up and employment going down. But the facts are that what we
did was to restore confidence. What we did was not push the panic button but
to have faith in the American people that, if we kept our cool in Washington,
this country would turn around and be what it is today-on the uphill, on the
real movement toward the kind of prosperity that we must have and will have.
And we did it because of you.
And then let me point out to you what we've done in that area. Employment
1544
