[373]
April 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
in the judgeships of one of the districts. We have been given the impression, also,
that some of our highly elected officials have expressed possibly a concern for the
appointment for a black to fill that position, that pending position. Would you
comment on what the situation is relative to this matter?
THE PRESIDENT. It's my recollection that in rather recent months there have
been four vacancies-two in the Eastern District and two in the Western District
of Louisiana. The Department of Justice recommended to me the names of two
individuals for the Eastern District and those names either have been or will
shortly be submitted to the Senate for confirmation. I don't recall their names.
There is the process now going on for the clearing and eventual submission of
names for the Western District. There are four or five names that have been
recommended by various people now before the Department of Justice. The
Department of Justice takes the names of individuals who have been recom-
mended, they go to the American Bar Association in the area, or in the State, and
they ask the Bar Association to determine whether they are well-qualified,
qualified or unqualified, and, after the Bar Association has submitted their
recommendations to the Department of Justice, then the Department of Justice
submits the names to me.
There have been no names submitted to me for the Western District. Those
two vacancies are still unfilled. I would assume that within a relatively short
period of time, I hope, anyhow, those recommendations will come to me for
approval.
And I do know that among some of the names that have been submitted-as
I recollect there are about five, maybe several more-included in that group are
one or two blacks. But I can't tell you what the Department of Justice is going
to recommend because they haven't completed the process yet.
MOST MEMORABLE FOOTBALL EXPERIENCE
[7.] Q. Mr. President, I'm Jack Clayton, a member of the Bossier Parish
School Board and a retired football coach.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I am an old has-been, too, in that sense. [Laughter]
Q. Yes, sir. [Laughter]
The President. It looks to me like we both played about the time when the
ball was round. [Laughter]
Q. Yes, sir, that's about it.
Mr. President, my question was not regarding the school board but rather
about football there. This is good football country, and I know there are a lot
of good football fans here. And I just wondered since you were a good football
1240
