[440]
May 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
born at 32d and Woolworth. As it is for anyone who revisits the scene of his
early childhood, the visit was a very moving experience, mixed with nostalgia,
with a new appreciation for having been born in this very wonderful part of
the country. And thanks to the generosity of the people of Omaha, the site
where the house once stood is being transformed into a garden to mark the
birthplace of the first native of Nebraska to serve as President of the United
States.
That's certainly a record I never expected to establish when I left this city
for Michigan at the ripe old age of a year and a half. [Laughter]
I am deeply honored by the thoughtfulness of the people of Omaha in preserv-
ing this site, and I thank everyone who participated. But my real purpose in
being here, though, is to honor the courage and the resourcefulness of a great
number of other Nebraskans.
Just 1 year and 1 day ago, a disaster struck Omaha in the path of a devastating
tornado. Archbishop Bergan-Mercy Hospital was struck with its full force, but
miraculously none of the 900 patients and staff members inside the hospital
was seriously injured.
The Sisters of Mercy and the hospital staff showed great courage, great
heroism, in evacuating the self-care unit before it was wrecked and moving
patients into the safety of the main building. It was truly a magnificent job of
responding to the ravages of the worst storm ever to hit Omaha.
Throughout the city, people brought order to a chaotic situation, provided
for the injured and the homeless, and cleaned up the damaged sections of this
great city.
I first and very early-heard about the tornado directly from Senator
Hruska and Congressman John McCollister, two members of your very fine con-
gressional delegation. Federal disaster relief was on its way within 24 hours,
and now the rebuilding of the damaged area is so complete it is very difficult
to find any sign that a tornado ever passed through here.
I can't help but say this: When you have a tornado or a flood or an earth-
quake, it's nice to know that somebody in Washington in the Federal Govern-
ment does care. So, you should be proud here of what all of you have done,
what all of those who helped you have done, and the self-sufficiency and this
great community spirit.
You are preparing now not only to rebuild from the ruins of a major disas-
ter but to expand on this site. This groundbreaking in itself is an act of cour-
age and of faith, two qualities that have never been in short supply in the
1488
