May 25
[527]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
were experiencing. Others insisted that we spend massive amounts of Federal
dollars to stimulate the economy.
Despite the danger, of course, of feeding an always dangerous inflation, I
decided the way to real recovery and enduring prosperity in America was not
through government quick fixes. We have tried those in the past. We know
they haven't worked and we knew they wouldn't work in 1975 or 1976.
I had faith that America would work its way out of its economic difficulties
rather than trying to spend its way out of its difficulties. I proposed, and the
Congress accepted, a major tax cut for individuals and tax incentives for busi-
ness expansion and job production so that we could get the great American
free enterprise system working at full speed.
We also began a comprehensive effort to restore the confidence of the
American people in themselves, in their government, and in their own future.
This effort was absolutely essential to restoring the economic confidence of the
consumer-of course, a very key element in the progress we had to make.
These policies, as we look back, have been very, very successful. America
today is in the midst of a strong and surging economic recovery, and we should
be very proud of that progress.
The real gross national product rose during the first quarter-January,
February, March of this year—at an annual rate of 8½ percent-far, far above
the most optimistic predictions. In dollars and cents, that means the value of
America's output of goods and services rose at an annual rate of almost $200
billion.
The amount of money people have to spend after taxes and other deductions
are taken from their paychecks, it's what the economists call real, spendable
income. This is increased by $100 billion in the past 12 months.
Farm income is at an alltime high and so is agricultural production. Total
retail sales are up more than 14 percent. Automobile sales are up 34 percent
over a year ago. Food sales are up more than 7 percent. General merchandise
is up 12 percent.
The prime rate of interest has been reduced from 12 percent when I became
the President, to 634 percent today. As a matter of fact, it looks to me like every-
thing that should be going up is going up and everything that should be
going down is going down. Since the bottom of the recession about a year
ago, we have gained 3,300,000 new jobs, more than 700,000 new jobs in the last
month alone.
But the most important thing, more Americans-87,400,000 of them—are
on the job today, which is an alltime record in the history of the United States.
1721
