[508]
May 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
panic. We didn't lose our cool. I never lost sight of a deeply held belief that I
have, that a government big enough to give us everything we want is a govern-
ment big enough to take from us everything we have.
In those difficult months we resisted big spending schemes that would have
caused larger and larger Federal deficits and even far more destructive infla-
tion. We rejected the discredited techniques of all politics, of tax and tax, spend
and spend, elect and elect.
Instead, we pursued a calm, constructive, effective policy to ensure America's
economic health, not just for an election year but for the long, long pull; for
us, yes, but more importantly, for the young people that I see in this great arena
here today. And that is what America is all about.
We had that deep-seated faith of the American system, that private enterprise
would regain its strength. And, as a result, we meet here today not in the gloom
of a recession or a depression, but in the full surge of an economic recovery.
One very major contributor to the strong economic recovery we are experienc-
ing is the success, the tremendous contribution and success of American agri-
culture. And the State of Oregon has played a very major role in that progress
and that success. And as I flew from Portland here, it was one of the most
enjoyable, one of the greatest experiences to see your fields, your equipment,
and to see what all of you do to make America the productive and successful
economy that we have. And we thank you very, very much.
Admittedly, we have a long way to go in certain areas-beef production—we
have to do better, and we will. But I say that overall farm exports are being
traded at a record volume; farm income is at an alltime high. We have reached
a major agreement with the Soviet Union which will ensure for the period of
the next 5 years, a minimum of 6 million metric tons-a new market, a good
market-and Oregon will contribute very significantly, tremendously in that
regard.
Last year, talking about exports, we exported the crops of the farmers of
America to the extent of $22 billion, and in 1976 we are going to export more
and more of the bounty of America's agriculture. And your contribution is
tremendous.
To make sure that good Oregon wheat and other farm products are pro-
duced for future generations and by those generations, I have proposed legisla-
tion raising the estate tax exemption from $60,000 to $150,000. But I have added
to that, a stretch-out of estate tax payments at low interest rates over a 25-year
period. But even more importantly, in the proposal that I have made to the Con-
gress, the transfer of assets between husband and wife will be tax free. That will
1662
