[493]
May 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
By October they have to get out of the temporary housing-the tents-and
get
back in to some kind of shelter that can last them over the winter. It will
probably take 2 or 3 years to rebuild totally.
So, the objective of the Italian Government-and ours, in assisting them—is to
get as quickly as possible some sort of decent shelter.
The interests of the commercial, the industry, even the farming, the agricul-
tural business, is very substantially disrupted. They lost substantial amounts of
their dairy equipment, key parts of their economy.
The villages are old and have a lot of historic value and monuments, too.
What was interesting to me was that people would approach me and point out
the need to protect their historic monuments, their church, their city hall.
I would find out afterwards that the man who had been saying that to me
had lost members of his family, his home had been destroyed, and yet one of
the first things on his mind was, protect our cultural heritage.
THE PRESIDENT. This is in the northern part, as I understand. The Yugoslavian
border is here, Trieste, and the Austrian border is north.
MR. PARKER. North, yes. This is an alluvial plain, and it rises into the moun-
tains rather precipitously. The impact area is right where rugged foothills are,
and there are quite a number of avalanches that did quite a bit of damage. There
are quite a number of incipient ones that have to be taken care of before the
area is safe.
THE PRESIDENT. Is this an area where there have been earthquakes previously?
MR. PARKER. NO, Mr. President. The best records that we can find show the
last earthquake in this area was in the fifteen hundreds. So, it is not an occur-
rence they would be ready for. We hope, however, that in the rebuilding, that
the new structures will, in fact, be resistant to it.
THE VICE PRESIDENT. Mr. President, the Italian Government did a beautiful
job in moving immediately on this, and the Italian military-within an hour,
between an hour and 2 hours-they were in there. All the deaths occurred in
the first minute of the earthquake. This whole thing happened just like that.
THE PRESIDENT. What time of day was it?
THE VICE PRESIDENT. Nine o'clock in the evening. That's why so many people
were in their homes. That's why they were killed in their homes.
THE PRESIDENT. We had, before you and Dan Parker came, we had some of
our military
THE VICE PRESIDENT. They did a beautiful job supporting-
THE PRESIDENT.—the helicopters, light-wing, fixed-wing aircraft.
MR. PARKER. There is an American air base, Mr. President, Aviano, which is
1620
