June 2
[549]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Members of the House as well as the Senate. Through closer ties and greater
cooperation there is much that our two nations can do to safeguard the peace
and to surmount the new challenges of an increasingly interdependent world—
such common problems as economic progress, energy, and the environment.
We must provide for our people the benefit of peace, prosperity, and freedom.
I know of your own personal, confident vision of Spain's future role in our
transatlantic community.
In 1492, Your Majesty, Columbus claimed America for a Spanish King and
Queen. Today, nearly 500 years later, a King and Queen of Spain have come
themselves to America not to claim it—[laughter]—but to join with us in
affirming the common ideals which make all of us citizens of the Western
World.
The American people are very proud to have you visit with us on this occa-
sion. Your Majesties, I lift my glass to you, to the Spanish people, and to the
friendship of the United States and Spain.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:11 p.m. in the
State Dining Room at the White House.
King Juan Carlos spoke in Spanish. His remarks
were translated by an interpreter as follows:
Mr. President, Mrs. Ford, ladies and gentlemen:
Thank you most sincerely for your words, Mr.
President. I, too, bring you a message from my
people, who love and respect yours, who for 200
years have been living an independent existence.
In the American nation you represent, we admire
a series of qualities that are especially characteristic
of it, for example, the respect for the individuality
of man and the right each one has to live and act
freely according to the dictate of his own con-
science, and the deep sense of equality that appears
in the documents on which your country was
founded.
In the United States you have achieved an open
society where opportunities are offered to the ini-
tiative, talent, and ingenuity of each individual, a
fact that has resulted in the ever-increasing
growth and prosperity of your country's economy
and wealth. In 200 years you have converted your
Nation into the leading political and military power
of the world, and this has led you to assume a
prominent share of the responsibility for interna-
tional order.
But you have never forgotten the spirit of '76,
the aims of the Founding Fathers at Philadelphia.
Your Constitution, wisely balancing the different
sources of power, allows the people to elect their
rulers democratically so that they may exercise
their power with the consensus of the governed
and under the rule of law. This is a philosophy of
public life which you have not only maintained
throughout 200 years, without hardly ever having
had to amend the Constitution that Burke called
the masterpiece of the human mind, but also you
have made it work, adjusting it to the demands
of modern life, of the industrial democracy of
the masses, and of the numerous contradictory
and sometimes violent currents which flow together
today in a free society-one which finds itself, as
yours does, at the head of technological progress.
When they contemplate this abiding historical
phenomenon of your Constitution, drawn up at
the end of the 18th century, many people wonder
with interest what can be the fundamental motive
for such a long vitality in a political document.
Personally, I believe that the strengths of your con-
stitutional text lie in the profoundly religious prin-
ciples that inspire them. Without a reference to a
divine power, there would be no sense in the moral
importance you attach to the liberty of the indi-
vidual and his responsibility in the exercise of a
democracy. Without that appeal, human political
society would lose the cohesion that keeps it
together. And it is often because those principles
were not respected that so many political regimes
in the Old World, which took their inspiration
from your model, did not survive for any length
of time.
"In God We Trust" is your foundational motto.
Spain, the Spanish people, and the monarchy I
represent also trust in God. May He make of our
close cooperation and friendship in every theme
a pact of peace and a pact for peace among the
1775
