April 30
[398]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
They run their railroads, for example, with their military. We don't. We
depend on either private enterprise or Amtrak. [Laughter] But let me illustrate
again what my opponent is in effect saying.
He says they the Russians-have 4 million men under arms. We have 2 mil-
lion men. Therefore, I gather he's saying that the United States ought to have
4 million men under arms. That's the only honest conclusion I come to.
Let me say this: If you go from 2 million to 4 million men under arms, the all-
volunteer military service program goes out the window. You will have to go
back to the draft. You can't double our men in the Army, Navy, Air Force,
and Marines and stay with an all-volunteer military force.
If Mr. Reagan wants to go to 4 million men, he is in effect advocating the
reimposition of selective service. That's a cold, hard fact, and I don't think that
is what the American people want.
Number two, there isn't a single military leader in this country who has
advocated any increase in our man-power strength of 2,000,001. The Chairman
of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the heads of the Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marines,
they think our manpower strength is right. So, I will rely on them rather than
somebody who says we should go from 2 million to 4 million.
So, when you add it all up, the use of certain statistics in a simplistic way
is not the way to present our military capability. I could take ships-let's take
a minute on that.
The statistics that my opponent uses say that they have got 1,250 ships and
we have 500. But you know if you analyze what those 1,250 ships include,
over half of them are what we call patrol craft or anti-minesweeping craft.
They don't have any ocean-going capability that affects the capability of our
Navy versus the Soviet Navy.
But then let's go to tonnage—and I don't know how many people here in
this room served in the Navy in World War II-I served for better than 2 years
on an aircraft carrier, most of the time in the Pacific-and it is tonnage and
firepower that make the difference. And if you take our tonnage and our fire-
power, we have twice as much tonnage as the Soviet Union has, even if they
include the patrol craft and the minesweepers.
So, you know, you are all realistic people; you deal with statistics. And people
can take a part of a picture and with statistics point out a wrong conclusion,
and my opponent has oversimplified the thing, taking only part of the statistical
data. But let's talk about what we have.
In the strategic area we have more warheads than the Soviet Union has, by
2 to 1. We have more high performance strategic aircraft, the B-52's and we hope
1359
