June 7
[579]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
and we decided that we had to take a firm, steady course to correct the problem.
What's happened? In the last 12 months we've added 3,600,000 more jobs,
700,000 of them in the month of April, 300,000 more in the month of May.
Last Friday, the Department of Labor announced that we had 87,700,000 people
gainfully employed in this country-the highest number in the history of
America. That is a good record. But it's not good enough. I'm not going to
be satisfied until we get over 90 million people gainfully employed in the United
States. And President Ford won't be satisfied until everybody who wants a job,
who's looking for a job, gets a job in the United States of America.
I said a moment ago that Federal taxes were too high. So, last year I
recommended to the Congress—and the Congress approved—a $23 billion tax
reduction, 25 percent of it to go to business so they can modernize, so they can
upgrade their capability, and 75 percent of it went to the individual taxpayers
of this country. And that helped to take us out of the recession.
At the same time, I said the Federal Government was spending much too
much money, so in January of this year I recommended to the Congress that
we cut the growth of Federal spending by 50 percent, and I said we needed
another tax cut on July 1 of this year which would include an increase in the
personal exemption from $750 per person to $1,000 per person. That is what
the Congress has got to do for you.
But then we ought to make some other adjustments in Federal taxes. As I
was driving up here from Lima, I saw the beautiful farmlands on each side of
the interstate highway. Those are family farms and, as I drove in here to
Findlay, I saw some of what are obviously family-owned businesses. What we
want to do is to protect the family farm. We want to make certain that family
businesses don't go to the Federal Government.
So, I recommended to the Congress a few months ago two things to take
care of that problem. Number one, we would increase the estate tax exemption
so that the owner of a farm could pass it on to the next generation, so the owner
of a business could pass it on more easily to the next generation. And I
recommended also that a transfer of property from husband to wife would be
tax free. I think that is right.
And now, speaking about agriculture, you know the American farmer has
produced under our administration the greatest corn crop, the greatest wheat
crop, the greatest soybean crop in American agriculture—once we got the
Federal agents off your back and out of your hair, you could produce.
And let me say very specifically, under the Ford administration we will
1845
