May 13
[473]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
is always something else we have to do. So, if we slip out after a few minutes,
I hope you will understand.
In the meantime, would you please enjoy yourselves. And we look forward
to seeing you next year and maybe a couple of years after that. [Laughter]
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:58 p.m. in the State Dining Room at the White House.
472
Statement on Congressional Adoption of a Federal Spending
Ceiling. May 13, 1976
THE SPENDING ceiling resolution adopted today by the Congress is $413.3
billion, nearly $18 billion more than I have recommended. The resolution fails
to check growth in Federal spending. It fails to put us on the track to a balanced
budget in 3 years. And it ignores the additional $10 billion tax cut I recommended
for the Amerian people. The individual appropriations actions the Congress
must take to implement their spending ceiling must come to me for action.
The Congress should be on notice that it is my intention to hold Federal
spending to the lower limit I proposed. I will not be a willing partner to the
risk of another round of double-digit inflation. I hope everybody realizes that
this resolution does not come to the President for action. If it did, I would veto it.
473
Remarks at the Annual Meeting of the American Jewish
Committee. May 13, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Max, Mr. Winter, Your Excellencies, Members
of the Congress, my associates in the executive branch of the Government, ladies
and gentlemen:
May I express to you, Max, my deep appreciation for your very generous
and kind remarks, and I hope and trust that I will have an opportunity for a
long, long time to justify that faith. I thank you very, very much.
I am really highly honored and greatly indebted to all of you to participate
in the congratulations of the American Jewish Committee on its 70th
anniversary.
As the Committee today celebrates its anniversary, we, all of us, are observing
our Bicentennial. The Bicentennial rightfully addresses the Jewish contribution
1565
