[362]
April 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
for the next fiscal year's budget in the Federal Government, I recommended,
instead of $120 million for solar research, $160 million.
So, we are investing a lot in some of these exotic systems, and I understand
here in the Atlanta area you have a high school or a school that is in the process
of testing whether you can heat and air cool a building of that size or that
magnitude. It is going to take a lot of research and development, but we are
spending a lot and private industry is spending a lot.
I am optimistic that by 1985, if we can get by for the next few years without
another oil embargo, we will solve the problem of energy and become energy
independent in America.
SECRETARY OF STATE KISSINGER; FOREIGN POLICY RECORD
[8.] Q. Mr. President, I am a retired pastor of Central Congregational
Church in Atlanta. As one who has been an admirer of your record in leader-
ship, especially in foreign policy, I feel you had very able assistance in that regard
from your Secretary of State, Henry Kissinger. My question is, in the event of
your reelection, will you do your utmost to keep Dr. Kissinger as Secretary of
State?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, let me repeat what I have said but repeat with emphasis.
I have told Secretary Kissinger that he can stay as Secretary of State as long
as I am President, and let me tell you why. I think on the record our foreign
policy has been one of success.
Let me give you a criteria-it is not the only one but it is a very responsible
criteria. I am the first President, Democrat or Republican, in the last 20 years
who could seek election and say that the country was at peace. And we are at
peace because we have the military capability to deter aggression, to maintain
the peace, and to protect our national interest. That is the kind of a military
program that fits in well with a diplomatic capability to work with our allies
on the one hand—and our alliance in Western Europe today is stronger than
it's ever been and our relationship with Japan in the Pacific is the best it has
ever been.
The net result is of a strong military capability plus a diplomatic capa-
bility. The United States foreign policy today is in the best shape it has been in
years and years and years, and we should be proud of it.
Q. Mr. President, I think we have time for one more question.
THE PRESIDENT, Let's have two more.
Q. All right, sir.
1202
