May 3
[418]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
We have a good program, a good military relationship with the South
Korean Government, and as far as I am concerned, we're going to keep them
strong because they are a part of our overall strategy for the Pacific.
JIMMY CARTER
[6.] Q. Mr. President, continuing with Mr. Carter, at a news conference
here yesterday, he accused you of weakness as a President. He said that Reagan
had pushed you around in the campaign, and you had backed off on issues to
accommodate his political pressure. How would you react to those charges?
The President. That's a very inaccurate charge. There's an old Michigan
saying that people who live in glass houses shouldn't throw stones. Let me
make an observation how Governor Carter has really been pushed around.
For example, when he raised the question of ethnic purity, I think within 24
hours he made a flip-flop. And then, up until that situation arose, why, he had
been opposed to the so-called Humphrey-Hawkins bill. And again, within 24
to 48 hours, he came out and endorsed the Humphrey-Hawkins bill.
So, I think his flexibility in this campaign is pretty well recognized. The
minute any of his Democratic opponents hit him on something, he backtracks
and takes another position. I know of no position that I have taken from the
very beginning to now, where I have changed my basic policy or program
based on any campaign rhetoric of Governor Reagan.
THE PRESIDENT'S RECORD
[7.] Q. Mr. President, yesterday Senator Barry Goldwater said that on a
scale of conservatism there might not be 2 percent worth of difference between
you and Ronald Reagan. In light of that and the very conservative nature of
Indiana Republicans, what is the choice that you offer over Governor Reagan
tomorrow?
THE PRESIDENT. There is a very basic choice. A person who has had some ex-
perience on a very important job, such as being President of the United States,
is a very vital factor. When individuals have to go to the polls and make a de-
cision between somebody who knows the job, who has done a good job, whose
policies both domestically and internationally have been successful—and when
you look at the record that I offer where we have cut inflation by 75 percent in
the 20 months that I have been President; where we now have employed in this
country 86,700,000 people—an alltime record; when you look at the fact that I
have restored integrity and public confidence in the White House-this is a
record based on experience and success, and I don't think the voters are going
1437
