April 10
[327]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
I think that is wrong. You just shouldn't put that burden on them. So, I favor
that, but not a national health insurance program.
AMERICANS DEFENSE OF FREEDOM
[10.] Q. Mr. President, would you comment on Solzhenitsyn 2 and his warn-
ings about our dealings with Russia and the casual way in which we Americans
seem to view our freedoms?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me answer the last part first.
I honestly don't think Americans casually treat their freedoms. I believe from
my many travels all over the country that Americans believe very deeply in
their freedoms and over the history of this country Americans—and thousands
upon thousands of them have gone to war to defend those freedoms, and tragi-
cally we have lost a lot of great American youth in defending those freedoms.
So, the history of the United States is one of defense of those freedoms, and
I believe, if the crisis ever arose-which I don't think it will-America today
would be just as forthright and strong in meeting those challenges to our free-
dom as our predecessors have in the past. I am confident of that.
Mr. Solzhenitsyn has commented concerning the life that he and others live
in the Soviet Union. He has forthrightly and strongly indicated how he feels,
how he and others in the Soviet Union were treated. Obviously, he preferred
our society where we think we have individual freedom to the conditions in
which he lived. I think it is wholesome and healthy for him to speak out as
forthrightly as he had on this subject.
U.S. MILITARY CAPABILITY
[11.] Q. I saw published recently a comparison of the military preparedness
between the United States and the Soviet Union, and it appears that we may be
rapidly losing the arms race with the adversary and it seems that in the recent
past Russia has become much more aggressive in the world, in various parts
of the world. So, what do you as President propose to do to keep this Nation a
very strong nation and one that would not be overcome by the Russian power?
THE PRESIDENT. As I said in my prepared remarks, the United States is un-
surpassed in military capability. Our strategic military strength is exactly what
our military leaders have recommended to me as President and to my predeces-
sors as President.
We have about a 3 to 1 lead over the Soviet Union in warheads, and warheads
are what goes to the target, not missiles themselves. We have a far more accu-
" Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn, a Russian novelist.
1089
