[615]
June 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
available to communities which face up to the issue honestly, voluntarily and
in the best spirit of American democracy.
This citizens' Committee would be made up primarily of men and women
who have had community experience in school desegregation activities.
It would remain distinct and separate from enforcement activities of the
Federal Courts, the Justice Department and the Department of Health, Educa-
tion and Welfare.
It is my hope that the Committee could activate and energize effective local
leadership at an early stage:
-To reduce the disruption that would otherwise accompany the desegrega-
tion process; and
-To provide additional assistance to communities in anticipating and resolv-
ing difficulties prior to and during desegregation.
While I personally believe that every community should effectively desegre-
gate on a voluntary basis, I recognize that some court action is inevitable.
In those cases where Federal court actions are initiated, however, I believe that
busing as a remedy ought to be the last resort, and that it ought to be limited in
scope to correcting the effects of previous Constitutional violations.
The goal of the judicial remedy in a school desegregation case ought to be
to put the school system, and its students, where they would have been if the acts
which violate the Constitution had never occurred.
The goal should be to eliminate "root and branch" the Constitutional viola-
tions and all of their present effects. This is the Constitutional test which the
Supreme Court has mandated-nothing more, nothing less.
Therefore, my bill would establish for Federal courts specific guidelines
concerning the use of busing in school desegregation cases. It would require the
court to determine the extent to which acts of unlawful discrimination by gov-
ernmental officials have caused a greater degree of racial concentration in a
school or school system than would have existed in the absence of such acts. It
would further require the court to limit the relief to that necessary to correct
the racial imbalance actually caused by those unlawful acts. This would prohibit
a court from ordering busing throughout an entire school system simply for
the purpose of achieving racial balance.
In addition, my bill recognizes that the busing remedy is transitional by its
very nature and that when a community makes good faith efforts to comply,
busing ought to be limited in duration. Therefore, the bill provides that three
years after the busing remedy has been imposed a court shall be required to
determine whether to continue the remedy. Should the court determine that
1912
