[583]
June 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
There is another aspect, however. From Idaho Falls down to American Falls
reservoir there are about 400,000 acres of highly productive lands, all irrigated,
all dependent upon headings from the river. Those lands are not flooded and
will not be flooded, but the headings themselves are being washed out. I think
I would place that number one priority-to move in there and protect or restore,
or replace those headings because if those lands go 10 days or 2 weeks without
irrigation, we will have additional terrific crop loss from lands that are not af-
fected at all by the flooding directly.
So, I would say the number one priority is to protect these lands. Number
two, and almost in the same priority, is to get equipment out there within 24
hours, if possible, to demonstrate to the people that we mean business and we
are ready to go.
THE PRESIDENT. Can you really do certain things that will preserve the farm
areas?
MR. STAMM. Yes, we think so.
SECRETARY OF THE Interior Kleppe. Mr. President, that is the part I would like
to come down on the hardest. We ought to use whatever authorities are available
to us to get action within 24 or 48 hours. I understand FDAA has already asked
us and the Corps of Engineers to join together and do what we can to bring
about saving those lands, not because of possible devastation but because of dry-
ing up, because of irrigation problems that we understand can be solved and,
therefore, that becomes very, very important. At this point I think that is the
most critical thing.
MR. STAMM. We have several agencies that are competent to negotiate con-
tracts immediately-the Corps of Engineers, Bureau of Reclamation, Soil Con-
servation Service, and we would propose-and we have already started.
THE PRESIDENT. What is the mileage from the dam down to this area here?
SECRETARY KLEPPE. South Idaho Falls?
MR. STAMM. Each one of these squares is 6 miles. You get down to about 55
miles in flood damage.
THE PRESIDENT. Rexburg was here, Sugar City?
SECRETARY Kleppe. That is correct.
MR. STAMM. Sugar City was the very first city that was hit below the dam and
Rexburg was the next, and those two were the hardest hit. I happen to have a
few pictures here, more are coming. That is Sugar City at the height. By the
time I got there Sunday afternoon this had largely receded. Many of the build-
ings had been washed off their foundations, but the foundations were exposed
1860
