April 10
[327]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
very successful years have been years when the Government left you alone and
let you produce without a lot of bureaucratic interference from the Nation's
Capital.
And I can promise you categorically that is the kind of successful farm policy
that I intend to pursue for the next 4 years. Today, we have no longer any
heavy farm surpluses hanging over your markets, costing the Government a
million dollars a day in storage fees. Instead of piling it up, we are selling grain
at a record volume. The Nation's grain reserves are now in the hands of the
farmers and in the hands of the private trade. The system is working very well,
and I congratulate you for it.
During the past year, your industry has been adversely affected to some extent
by a few grain inspection agencies which have not carried out properly their
responsibilities. It is absolutely essential that we maintain the confidence of our
export grain customers who buy such a large percentage of America's farm
production. But we must not, we cannot do it by turning over more of your busi-
ness to a Government bureaucracy in Washington, D.C.
I strongly oppose—and I want to be emphatic and affirmative in this regard—
I strongly oppose the so-called Humphrey-Clark bill, which would federalize the
U.S. grain inspection service.
I favor instead an approach which provides for more careful Federal super-
vision of grading and weighing our grain for export. However, I do not believe
that it is appropriate or necessary to extend this limited Federal participation to
interior points.
Private concerns have for years operated country elevators in weighing and in-
spection services all across our great Union. The abuses which have been exposed
do not implicate the internal operations at all, and I see no reason whatsoever to
replace private interests with Government controls.
Furthermore, the Department of Agriculture has recently proposed broad,
sweeping regulations aimed at eliminating conflicts of interest and ensuring a
more efficient portside grain inspection system. I have urged Secretary of Agri-
culture Butz to devote the best and most comprehensive efforts of his department
to ensure that the grain of American farmers sold abroad is properly certificated
and that the integrity of our export efforts is restored to its proper position.
Abuses of the past have impaired our trade credibility and shortchanged the
American farmer. We are working hard and we are working fast to correct
these deficiencies, and I hope that Congress does not overreact by federalizing
the entire system. In any event, I propose to put an end to corruption in the grain
inspection business, and the sooner the better.
1079
