[523]
May 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
certainly not Acheson or Dulles policies or Kissinger policies, but as the policies
of the United States that reflect the real purposes of the American people when
they follow their finest instincts.
Since Washington, who told us truly that the best way to preserve peace is
to be prepared for war, there have been continuous elements in our foreign
policy as well as unforeseen events and discouraging setbacks. We have, by-and-
large, remained faithful to the principles on which this Nation was founded
some 200 years ago: Self-determination and love of liberty, the obligation of the
strong towards the weak and of the prosperous toward the poor.
We have learned the hard way that we cannot force freedom on the unwilling,
that we cannot fill every outstretched hand, or involve ourselves in every faraway
fight. But we can be an immense influence for good, for justice, for reason, and
for peace throughout the world.
Let me cite just a few examples of what I mean specifically. Take SALT II—
the negotiations with the Soviet Union to limit strategic nuclear weapons and
launching systems. As everybody knows, both the United States and the Soviets
have more than enough of these terrible weapons to deter any attack by the
other. But until there is a mutually satisfactory agreement fully verifiable, neither
side can permit the other to gain strategic superiority, and so both sides continue
to build more and more systems at a very tremendous cost.
What is our United States objective in SALT II? To further reduce the
dangers of a runaway thermonuclear arms race and the risk of an unthinkable
holocaust. What are we trying to agree upon with the Soviet Union? A cap
or ceiling on the total number of launchers and bombers either side can have
ready for use at any given time. If new ones are added, the same number of
existing strategic systems have to be scrapped.
At Vladivostok, for the first time, we agreed to equal numbers of missile
launchers and bombers for us as well as for them. For years the Soviets had
held out on the grounds that their defense needs demanded that they have more
than we. Furthermore, the equal numbers we agreed upon would compel the
Soviets to destroy some of their existing strategic systems and allow the United
States to complete our present programs.
What remains for both sides is to find a way to deal with certain new missile
and other systems capable of either strategic or tactical use. We call them more
or less gray area weapons systems. And, of course, whatever is agreed to would
have to be mutually acceptable to both sides.
If this is resolved to our satisfaction, I will send the negotiated treaty to the
United States Senate for full scrutiny and public debate. This is true of all of our
1706
