[585]
June 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. We haven't discussed that at the present time. I wouldn't
rule it out or commit myself to it.
Q. Mr. President, our poll, the New York Times-CBS poll in Ohio, indicated
that many Republicans felt that this battle between you and Mr. Reagan had
become divisive and was hurting the party. How do you look at it now? How
much damage has been done to the Republican Party as a result of this?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think much damage has been done to the Republican
Party. I was very pleased to see on the news last night that Mr. Reagan had
indicated that if I won the nomination, he would support me. And I have
indicated that I have traditionally supported the Republican nominee, and I
would again. So at least the two contenders are in agreement, and I think that's
healthy. I think it would be reflected in the delegates to the convention and to
the Republicans in all 50 States.
Q. Mr. President, now that the primaries are over, I wonder if you and your
people will continue to harp on this thing about Rhodesia, what Mr. Reagan
said about it. At this point, aren't you going to be talking practical politics, as
you indicated earlier, in talking about the fact that you believe you are electable,
instead of going back to Reagan and his remarks on Rhodesia?
THE PRESIDENT. I think we will use the theme that I used in the State of Ohio.
It was very effective. I am electable. I can bring in more Republican Members of
the Congress and State legislators. I have a good record. We have done a great
deal to make this country a good bit more prosperous today than it was a year
ago. We got peace and we've got the trust in the White House that's needed and
necessary. We will be talking about affirmative things that I think will help us
convince delegates in the convention. And I think it will help us win the elec-
tion in November.
Q. Mr. President, the count is still very close. Hasn't Governor Reagan given
you a tougher run in the primaries than you first expected?
THE PRESIDENT. I would say that it has been a tough contest. Competition has
been rough. We expected to win, when we started out, in Kansas City, and we
think we will win in Kansas City. We have had some disappointments but, on
the other hand, we have done very, very well, such as in Ohio and New Jersey.
And I think we will do well in some of the convention States.
Q. But hasn't the Reagan challenge been stronger than you expected when
the primaries started in February?
THE PRESIDENT. Oh, I think that's probably true, but I don't think that's sig-
nificant as long as we win.
Q. Mr. President, what does California do to this electability argument? The
1864
