July 7
[654]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
humanity in the creation of a better world. As new nations and old, each set
their political course to achieve these aims. The principles of human dignity and
individual rights set forth in the Magna Carta and our own Declaration of In-
dependence remain truly revolutionary landmarks.
Your Majesty, the wounds of our parting in 1776 healed long ago. Americans
admire the United Kingdom as one of our truest allies and best friends. There
could be no more convincing evidence of that friendship than the splendid British
contributions and participation on the occasion of our Bicentennial.
Last month I had the privilege and honor to welcome to the White House Rose
Garden the distinguished delegation of the British Parliament, who escorted
an historic copy of the Magna Carta to America. The loan of this document for
our Bicentennial is a gesture that will bring pleasure and inspiration to all who
view it.
Yesterday, in Philadelphia, Your Majesty inaugurated the new Bicentennial
bell, a gift from the people of Britain to the people of the United States, inscribed
"Let Freedom Ring." It will hang in the Bell Tower in Independence National
Historical Park. When I was in Philadelphia on the Fourth of July, I thought
what a perfect complement the new bell will be to our own Liberty Bell and
the Centennial bell in Independence Hall.
For these gifts and for many others which Britain has honored our historic
celebration, the American people are deeply grateful. Above all, we appreciate
the personal honor you have so graciously demonstrated by visiting our shores
at this special moment in our history.
During your visit you will travel to hallowed American landmarks. You will
observe many changes since you were here last. But as you travel throughout our
land, I trust that you will find something else in the United States—a new sense
of unity, of friendship, of purpose, and tranquillity. Something wonderful
happened to America this past weekend. A spirit of unity and togetherness deep
within the American soul sprang to the surface in a way that we had almost
forgotten. People showed again that they care, that they want to live in peace
and harmony with their neighbors, that they want to pull together for the good
of the Nation and for the good of mankind.
This weekend we had a marvelous reaffirmation of the American spirit. In
the days ahead, we would like very much to share that spirit with you.
During your visit in 1957, President Eisenhower remarked that America's
respect for Britain was symbolized in our affection for the royal family. It is in
this spirit we welcome Your Majesty's visit as a happy occasion for reaffirming
1983
