[527]
May 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
This is progress, meaningful progress. But, most importantly, done the right
way.
Consider where we started from 12 months ago when the unemployment rate
was nearly 9 percent. That's a good comeback by any standard. After months
and months of higher unemployment and mounting fear, America today is
getting back to work and faith in our country's future has been restored. We're
going in the right direction but this President will not be satisfied until every
American who wants a job can find a job. That's my criteria.
We will not achieve full employment by letting the Federal Government plan
on the one hand, or control the national economy on the other.
Just over a week ago, I proposed a very innovative recommendation to the
Congress a 4-year agenda for action on comprehensive regulatory reform
in every major segment of our economy, and this would include, of course,
OSHA, EPA every agency, every department of the Federal Government
would get a mandatory review on a 4-year basis.
I expect the Congress to respond because it's my feeling that the public in
California and in all 49 other States are demanding that somehow we get the
workings of the Federal Government analyzed, reviewed and restructured and
made better. And the only way that I know is to get the legislation that I have
proposed and I think the Congress, when they get the word from the public,
will respond, help us out. This is the way to make our government work for
us and work for our country.
May I say, also, the administration has undertaken some of the most funda-
mental reforms of government regulations in reporting requirements in the
history. Small businesses in this country spend about $18 billion every year just
to comply with government reporting requirements. Most merchants in America
are small businessmen or small businesswomen. It's time that they got back to
working for their customers instead of working for the Federal Government.
It's time the Government minded its own business for a while and let you run
yours.
More government will not solve America's economic problems. The answer
is less government control, less wasteful government spending, and lower taxes
from middle-income Americans.
I want to cut Federal income taxes by an addition $10 billion starting July 1,
1976, just a few months or a few weeks away. And in my proposal to make these
reductions in personal income taxes, I believe that we must increase the personal
exemption from $750 to $1,000 for every individual taxpayer.
But to help provide the kinds of jobs that are needed and necessary, I think
1722
