[387]
April 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
INCOME TAX REFORM
[12.] Q. Mr. President, Bob Raleigh with KPRC-Radio in Houston.
Income taxes are something near and dear to the hearts of Americans this
time of year. Do you favor income tax reforms and, if so, what would you like
to see them become?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the best income tax reform that I know of is the kind
of a program that I recommended to the Congress in January of last year, where
I recommended an increase in the personal exemption for every individual tax-
payer from $750 to $1,000. That would affect every individual income taxpayer.
That is the kind of reform that is meaningful, particularly to the middle-income
taxpayer.
Now, Congress ought to get on with that job. I have recommended for the
period after July 1 of this year, an additional $10 billion reduction in taxes-
75 percent of it to go to individual taxpayers, 25 percent to business, so that they
can increase their productivity, modernize their equipment and plant.
That is the kind of tax reform that means something to people who want
jobs on the one hand, and people who want more of their own money in their
pockets so they can spend it, rather than have the Federal Government spend it.
Now, all of these other so-called tax reforms have been talked about for as
long as I was in Congress. The way to get the job done is to increase personal
exemptions as I recommended.
DEMOCRATIC PRESIDENTIAL NOMINEE
[13.] Q. Mr. President, Russ Ward of NBC News.
THE PRESIDENT. My old skiing buddy.
Q. A political question, Mr. President. Hubert Humphrey is reported ready
to enter the Democratic race on a formal basis. We would be interested in your
reaction to this, and then a related question. If Jimmy Carter is the Democratic
nominee, as it now appears, how would you propose to go about winning the
Southern conservative support that over the years has been needed for a Republi-
can Presidential candidate to win?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I am not really the best expert on whether or not Hubert
Humphrey is going to enter the New Jersey primary, or whether by doing that
he can stop Jimmy Carter, or whether Jimmy Carter is going to get the nomi-
nation. As an outside observer, I think the win by Jimmy Carter in Penn-
sylvania Tuesday certainly gave him the kind of momentum that ought to con-
cern Hubert Humphrey and the other Democratic active candidates.
The only way I can see that they could stop him now is to have a smoke-filled
1304
