June 6
[569]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
negotiate, to lower tensions, to find solutions to problems, to be willing to mold
coexistence into cooperation. There will be obstacles, and there will be dis-
appointments, but confident in our purpose to maintain freedom, we will
persevere. This is a President's responsibility.
We have embarked on the path of halting and reversing the strategic arms
spiral. We must continue both with vigilance and perseverance until we have
banned the horrors of nuclear war. I will seek a successful conclusion of this
round of the SALT negotiations to finalize the accord I reached with General
Secretary Brezhnev at Vladivostok a year and a half ago. When concluded, I
will submit such an agreement to the Congress and to the American people,
regardless of any alleged political advantage or political disadvantage.
We must continue and we must develop our new relationship with the People's
Republic of China. China is a major country and a great country. It contains one-
quarter of mankind. No stable global peace can be built without its constructive
contributions. The United States will carry on this process with fidelity toward
our friends and good will to all.
We have taken important initiatives toward helping resolve the problems of
the Middle East and southern Africa. Peaceful solutions may be more possible
now than at any moment before or in the future. Regional conflict can pose
wider dangers. The world community cannot let them fester and explode. We
are morally committed to the survival and to the security of Israel. We also have
significant and growing friendships with the moderate nations of the Arab
world. Because of the steps that we have taken, the time is approaching when
successful effort can be made for a just and lasting negotiated peace in the
Middle East.
We will continue America's efforts to help resolve local conflicts, whether in
Lebanon or Cyprus or elsewhere, and we are redoubling our efforts to combat
the proliferation of nuclear weapons.
We have opened a hopeful new dialog with the less developed nations. We
must continue the process on the basis of mutual respect, making it a fruitful
vehicle for developing their economies and contributing to international pros-
perity. America will continue to offer bold proposals in the economic dialog with
the developing countries, as we have done. We will not be pressured; we will not
be blackmailed. But talks between producers and consumers of energy, between
rich nations and poor, will continue until cooperative solutions are reached to
the common challenge of interdependence.
Most importantly, we are regaining our self-confidence and pride at home.
Let us face the future confidently. Our role abroad should be a source of continu-
1823
