May 6
[434]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Simple arithmetic indicates that the social security trust fund is headed for
trouble. Unless the Congress acts to ensure that the fund takes in as much as
it pays out, there will not be adequate security for old or young.
In my State of the Union Message in January, I proposed a payroll tax increase
of .3 percent each for employees and employers, to increase revenues into the
trust fund to ensure that benefits will be available to all who have earned them.
My proposed increase would cost workers, with a maximum taxable income,
less than a dollar a week. This increase will help stabilize trust funds so that
current and future recipients can be assured the benefits that they have earned.
I urge the Congress to take the earliest possible action on my proposal to preserve
the integrity of the social security trust fund.
434
Remarks at a Reception for Members of the Association of
American Editorial Cartoonists. May 6, 1976
Mr. Hill, Mr. Huici, members of the Association, and guests:
Walking over, I was trying to recollect where we had first gotten together,
and I was reminded by one of your officers that it was up in Boston. So, it's a
little shift from the Parker House to the East Room of the White House, but
it is a great opportunity for me to welcome all of you and to meet with you and
to provide a more personalized view of the President for your sketches.
Although, when it comes to personalized views, I don't think I will ever
forget the one expressed by a former teammate of mine from my old Michigan
football team. He introduced me one time at a banquet and said, “You might be
interested to know that I played football with Jerry Ford for 2 years. Jerry played
center, I was the quarterback, and you might say it gave me a completely differ-
ent view of the President." [Laughter]
I hope your views today won't be quite that different. But I am pleased and
honored to welcome you to the White House. Your editorial cartoons, represent-
ing a truly great American tradition, have adorned the White House, its walls,
for many, many years. Today, I am delighted to welcome all of you in person.
Two years ago this month, I addressed your association in Boston. At that
time, Guernsey LePelley, the editorial cartoonist for the Christian Science Moni-
tor, said you wanted to get a firsthand impression to better perceive my true
identity. There had been a number of cartoons depicting identical Vice Presi-
1477
