[563]
June 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
ple get a little lackadaisical. They get a little apathetic when the challenge is
not there. We can't afford that in the State of New Jersey on Tuesday. We have to
make a massive effort; we have to get a tremendous vote, and that means that
every county leader, that means that every voter in this State, gets not only him-
self or herself to the polls but makes absolutely positive that everybody who can
vote goes to the polls and sends out a strong, strong message that the State of
New Jersey is in President Ford's column.
Let me give you a few reasons why I think we ought to have 4 more years
of this administration.
Number one, when I became President 22 months ago-let your minds drift
back-this country was in a very serious situation. The American people, for
reasons we all know, had lost their confidence in the White House. The
American people knew that we were suffering serious economic problems with
the rate of inflation of over 12 percent. The American people knew we were on
the brink of a serious economic recession. The American people knew that their
friends and allies around the world were uncertain as to the will and the resolu-
tion of this great country. Our adversaries were in a mood that they might
well have taken advantage of the circumstances in America.
It was not a very happy time to become President of the United States, but
we decided that we would work at the job; we would have solid, sound pro-
grams and policies to turn things around.
I believe that because of the frankness, the straightforwardness, the candor,
we have restored the confidence of the American people in the White House
and in the Oval Office. And we will do it for the next 4 years.
We have turned the economy around. A year ago unemployment was going
up, and employment was going down. But because we had a good program,
we followed a calm, constructive approach to what the problems were
economically.
Today it was announced just Friday by the Department of Labor-the
United States has 87,700,000 people gainfully employed, the most Americans
who have ever had jobs in the history of the United States. That is a good record.
We had 300,000 more jobs in the month of May. We have 3,600,000 more jobs
in the last 12 months.
Let's take just a look at inflation-12 percent when I became President, 3
percent or less for the first 4 months of this calendar year. We made a 75 percent
reduction in the rate of the inflation, and that is a good record that we ought to
be proud of.
I remind you in the area of foreign policy, there isn't a single American boy
1808
