[339]
April 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
more quickly, I think it might lead to a better decision or a better feeling by
the delegates toward the Presidential nominee and toward the Vice-Presiden-
tial nominee.
PRIMARY ELECTION RESULTS
[8.] Q. Mr. President, in the primaries to date, almost half the voters of
your own party have voted against you. Why do you think this is so?
THE PRESIDENT. I have a formidable opponent. But when you come right down
to it, we are doing very well in the delegates, and the delegates-that is where
the ballgame is won or lost. And as of now, I think we have 250-some firm
delegates, and my opponent has, as I recollect, around 80.
We think we have a good many more delegates, and as long as you get the
delegates, then the difference in the actual votes is not really significant. But
I can only say again, I think my opponent is a formidable public figure. But
we are winning, and we are going to keep on winning.
HOWARD HUGHES AND THE CIA
[9.] Q. On a different note, Mr. President, the CIA has been and still is a
mysterious organization, and Howard Hughes was a mysterious human being.
Can you tell us anything about the link between Howard Hughes and the CIA?
THE PRESIDENT. The only link that I think I can comment on is the one that
involved the Glomar, where one of his companies was involved in the construc-
tion of that ship and its operations. Other than that, I don't think it is appropri-
ate for me to discuss a relationship that may or may not have existed.
FEDERAL SPENDING AND TAX REDUCTION
[10.] Q. Mr. President, yesterday, the Senate Budget Committee approved a
budget which added some $16 billion to your spending totals and provided
for a smaller tax cut than you wanted. Do you consider this a major change?
And what effect do you think it would have on the economic outlook?
THE PRESIDENT. We think the budget that we put together, with a spend-
ing ceiling of $394-plus billion, calling for additional $10 billion tax reduction
beginning July 1, is the right approach. Now, the House and Senate Budget
Committees have added roughly 16-well, they went up to $412 billion in one
and $413 billion in another. I don't think that extra spending is needed.
I think the better way to continue our economic recovery is to hold the lid
on spending at the figure that I recommended and to give the American people
additional tax reduction. We, of course, have no direct impact in the executive
branch on their resolution as to the spending ceiling.
1126
