[579]
June 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
never let the American farmer and what he produces be a pawn in the foreign
policy decisions of this Government.
But let's take the last-peace. When I became President, we were still engaged
in that conflict some 8,000 miles away. It is over and, because we are strong,
because we have the diplomatic skill to do the job, we are at peace, and we are
going to stay at peace because our allies respect us and our adversaries also
respect us. And let me point out, as Tenny Guyer did, your great Congressman,
there isn't an American boy fighting on a foreign soil and dying on a foreign
soil under this administration.
Now, let's talk about tomorrow. You've got a big decision to make. If you want
to nominate a Republican candidate for the Presidency who can win in Novem-
ber, if you do, vote for President Ford. If you want a candidate on the Republi-
can ticket who can help to reelect Bob Taft, who can help to reelect Tenny Guyer,
who can help to reelect Del Latta and all of the other Republicans and add to the
number of Republicans in the House of Representatives, in the Senate, if you
want a Republican at the head of the ticket who will help Jim Rhodes get some
more State legislators, if you want a Republican at the head of the ticket that can
help get Republicans elected in the courthouse, you go out there tomorrow and
vote for President Ford and his delegates. That is the way to do it.
Now, you know I come from that State up north-[laughter-as my great
friend Woody Hayes' says, "that school up north." Now, you have given us a
hard time the last few years, and we take it. But let me challenge you. A few
weeks ago the voters of the State of Michigan gave me a 65-percent majority.
Can Ohio beat that tomorrow?
Woody Hayes was down in Columbus a couple of weeks ago, and Woody
Hayes-as much as he has some reservations about any Michigander, he came
out and endorsed me. That was the greatest compliment I could have received.
And I say to all of you wonderful Buckeyes, nothing would make me happier
than to have that vote come in about 8:15 or 8:30 tomorrow and indicate that the
voters in the State of Ohio had beaten Michigan and given me 66 percent of the
votes. That would be perfect.
So, let me thank you wonderful people from Findlay, in the Flag City of
America—the largest Bicentennial flag—it is an inspiration to each and every one
of us.
I ask you to support me tomorrow-go to the polls-because we have achieved
the peace, we are turning the economy around, and we're going to have a healthy,
Head coach of the Ohio State University football team.
1846
