May 19
[497]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
THE PRESIDENT. I've had two of the outstanding members of my Cabinet
working with others, trying to find any new approach or a combination of sev-
eral new approaches. And I am encouraged with their progress to date, because
I think it's a matter we've got to settle and settle in a constructive way. And be-
tween the Attorney General, Mr. Levi, and the Secretary of HEW, I believe that
we may have some ways in which we can achieve the results without the trag-
edies that have occurred in some of our major metropolitan areas.
Q. Mr. President, can you tell us something about your discussion with
Mrs. Golda Meir¹ today?
THE PRESIDENT. We just discussed the current situation in the Middle East
which is, of course, a very excellent opportunity for me to get the benefit of one
of our era's outstanding stateswomen. It was just a discussion bringing me up
to date. She brought some messages to me from the Prime Minister, and we dis-
cussed related matters concerning the Middle East as a whole.
Q. Mr. President, concerning the great strength that both you and Governor
Reagan have shown in gathering delegates thus far, do you think it's still possible
for either of you to get a first ballot nomination and avoid a floor fight?
The President. We're optimistic that we can get a first ballot victory in
Kansas City.
Q. Mr. President, can I ask you a question that you were a little reluctant to
answer in Michigan prior to the vote? I think we asked you then, could your
campaign survive a defeat in Michigan? I was wondering if you could reveal
your thought processes prior to the Michigan vote? Do you think you could have
survived a loss in your home State, politically?
The President. Well, Wally [Walter Rodgers, Associated Press Radio],
I repeatedly told you and, I think, everybody else who asked that question, we
didn't contemplate any loss in Michigan. I had good reason to believe we would
win. And when you have that feeling, why worry about the thing that is not
going to happen? Why don't you plan on what you will do when the good things
happen? And that is what happened.
Q. You had that feeling all along?
THE PRESIDENT. Oh, of course.
REPORTER. Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:51 p.m. on the South Grounds at the White House.
¹ Prime Minister of Israel 1969-74.
1631
