April 9
[321]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
either come up with a comprehensive program that is really new, which would
be much like the family assistance program that was submitted in 1969 and
1973. That is one alternative. It would probably have to be modified, but it
would consolidate all of the many, many welfare programs that have been
piled one upon another over the years. That is one course. And we have some
rather specific recommendations that are being analyzed in that area right now.
Or you can take the other course of action, which is to try and tighten up, to
change the existing welfare programs, including food stamps, on a piecemeal
basis.
Now, sometime between now and next January we will make a decision which
is the better of the two courses. But obviously, one or the other has to be
undertaken.
Let me add in the interim, however, the food stamp program has gotten
totally out of control. Six or eight years ago, it was costing around $400 million
a year. This fiscal year the cost is going to be close to $8 billion a year-$8 billion
a year. It is a program in the Department of Agriculture's budget, and that is
more of Agriculture's budget expenditures than what they give or do or help
for farmers. It is unbelievable.
But anyhow, what we have tried to do is—we submitted last year, modifica-
tions to the food stamp program which would save roughly $1,600 million a
year. The Congress said, no, you can't put that into effect until after January of
this year. So, we had to wait. That is what the law said.
So, they kept promising us that they were going to move; they were going
to do something in correcting the inequities in poor administration of the food
stamp program. Well, they haven't done it. So finally, about a month or 6 weeks
ago, we submitted, under the law, this modification of the food stamp program
to save $1,600 million. It goes into effect, I think, in about 3 weeks, because after
you publish it in the FEDERAL REGISTER, I think there is 60 days for people to
object and so forth. And unless we are sued and stopped from doing it, that
program will go into effect in a relatively short period of time.
In the meantime—where is John Tower? The Senate-did they conclude ac-
tion, John, on food stamps yesterday or not?
Well, as I understand it, the Senate spent about a week in trying to do
something in food stamps, and John just told me it was a bad bill. [Laughter]
And believe me, I rely on his judgment on virtually everything that comes out
of the Senate. So, if he says it is a bad bill, you can imagine what is going to
happen to it. [Laughter]
1045
