[513]
May 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
Significantly, the greatest bulk of this $17 billion is money lost through crime.
Law enforcement officials estimate that up to one-half of the robberies, mug-
gings, burglaries, and other forms of property crimes are committed by addicts
to support their expensive and debilitating habit. It's a real tragedy. And I pledge
to you today that I will spare no effort to crush the menace of drug abuse.
Clearly, as we look at the picture today, our first defense must be directed at
our own borders to clamp down on the illegal flow of drugs from foreign
sources. Since today, 80 to 90 percent of the current flow of heroin comes across
the Mexican border, we must expand our crackdown in that area, and we will.
I will not recite the added activity that the Federal Government is undertaking
in this area, but I can assure each and every one of you that it is being directed
right from the White House.
Our efforts, however, must not stop there. We must accelerate our law enforce-
ment efforts throughout our own country.
Despite all the rhetoric of recent years, I do not believe that we have yet suc-
ceeded in making it tough enough for drug traffickers. The people who traffic
in hard drugs are nothing less than merchants of death and should be put—
and I mean put-behind bars for a long, long, long time.
Justice Department studies show that more than a quarter of those convicted
of narcotics trafficking do not spend a single day in jail. The extraordinary lax-
ity that sometimes exists was illustrated recently in a case when law enforce-
ment officers arrested 31 people, most of whom were major violators responsible
for a very large shipment of heroin into the United States. Nineteen of those
arrested were immediately freed on a $500 personal recognizant bond, even
though their offenses were punishable by 15 years in jail.
All but 2 of the 19 had long, long arrest records, and 1 was on parole for a
narcotics offense. This is unforgiveable and completely indefensible. We have to
close legal loopholes that permit traffickers to escape the Federal penitentiary.
Those who live off the misery of others must pay the price, and the higher the
price, the better, as this President sees it.
Above all, we must always remember that law enforcement alone cannot win
the war on crime. The combined efforts of the Federal Government, State and
local authorities will be of little use unless the American people rally to fight
the scourge of crime within their own communities.
I am particularly encouraged by the citizens coalitions against crime that are
cropping up all over the United States. Here, as in other law enforcement areas,
California is in the forefront. The 50,000 volunteers in the neighborhood watch
program in the city of Los Angeles have been able to cut crime substantially. In
1678
