May 14
[476]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
I have had the great honor and privilege to serve as your President now for
more than 21 months. When I took office in August of 1974, America was faced
with some of the most pressing and the most serious problems in its 200-year
history. Our economy had gone haywire, with prices going up at an annual
rate of more than 12 percent and with America on the brink of the worst
recession in 40 years. Our national resolve to meet international commitments
had been called into question by our allies and adversaries alike. There was
great danger to peace in many, many areas throughout the world. Underlying
these serious problems was a crisis of confidence in our government, especially
in the White House.
There was a crisis of spirit among the American people, many of whom
began to question whether our best days were already behind us. Twenty-one
months later, the American scene has dramatically improved. That 12-percent
inflation rate has been cut more than half. In fact, it's down to less than 3
percent in the first 3 months of 1976, and that's a 75-percent reduction, a good
record. After seeing unemployment rise to nearly 9 percent just 12 months
ago at the low point of that recession, we have recovered more than 3,300,000
jobs in the last 12 months alone-87,400,000 are on the job today throughout
the 50 States, and that is more than ever before in the history of the United
States. And I would say that's a pretty good comeback from where we were a
year ago. Internationally, America is at peace with every nation on Earth. Not
one American is serving in combat anywhere today anyplace throughout the
world, and I intend to keep it that way.
The day that I took the oath of office as President of the United States I said
that truth is the glue that holds government together. Twenty-one months later
the record of my administration is one of candor, integrity, and openness. It's
a record that has restored the people's confidence and trust in the White House,
and it is a record that I'm very, very proud of.
The American people today are looking into the future with faith instead of
fear, and that future can be as bright and as successful as we want to make it.
Economically, we're on a course of steady growth and rising prosperity. We
have done battle with the worst recession in 40 years and with the worst inflation
in more than 50 years, and we've won.
Our next battle is with deficit spending by the Federal Government, and I
have already begun that battle with 49 vetoes as my ammunition. Despite a
supposedly veto-proof, two-thirds Democratic majority in the Congress, we
got 42 of those vetoes sustained, and those 42 vetoes will save the American
people $13 billion.
1573
