May 7
[437]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
436
Remarks Upon Vetoing the Foreign Assistance Bill.
May 7, 1976
I AM returning herewith, without my approval, S. 2662, which authorizes for-
eign aid for the fiscal year, because the bill would seriously obstruct the exercise
of the President's constitutional responsibilities for the conduct of foreign affairs.
In addition to raising fundamental constitutional problems, this bill includes
a number of unwise restrictions that would seriously inhibit my ability to imple-
ment a coherent and consistent foreign policy. While I encourage increased
congressional involvement in the formulation of foreign policy, the pattern of
unprecedented restrictions contained in this bill requires that I reject such con-
gressional encroachment on the executive branch's constitutional authority to
implement that policy.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:24 a.m. in the Cabinet Room at the White House.
437
Veto of the Foreign Assistance Bill. May 7, 1976
To the Senate of the United States:
I am returning, without my approval, S. 2662, a bill that would seriously
obstruct the exercise of the President's constitutional responsibilities for the con-
duct of foreign affairs. In addition to raising fundamental constitutional prob-
lems, this bill includes a number of unwise restrictions that would seriously
inhibit my ability to implement a coherent and consistent foreign policy:
• By imposing an arbitrary arms sale ceiling, it limits our ability to respond
to the legitimate defense needs of our friends and obstructs U.S. industry
from competing fairly with foreign suppliers.
By requiring compliance by recipient countries with visa practices or human
rights standards set by our Congress as a condition for continued U.S. as-
sistance, the bill ignores the many other complex factors which should
govern our relationships with those countries; and it impairs our ability to
deal by more appropriate means with objectionable practices of other
nations.
By removing my restrictions on trade with North and South Vietnam,
1481
