[387]
April 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
Now, some of those statistics that the former Governor has used are statis-
tics that we use in convincing the Congress to give to the President the kind of
a defense budget that I have recommended. But in the process, he only takes
a very small part of those statistics instead of presenting the total picture. Let
me give you an example.
In the strategic area, we have the most accurate, we have the most survivable
ballistic missiles in the world and, at the same time, we have far, far more war-
heads, many more than the Soviet Union has. And in addition, we have in our
strategic forces a 2 to 1 or 3 to 1 ratio over them in long-range, high-perform-
ance aircraft. So what you have to do is to take the total picture and not just a
piece, which my opponent has done.
Q. What about-do you feel Mr. Reagan is fit to be President of the United
States?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, that is a judgment for the voters of Texas and the voters
of the rest of the country to decide. It is really a question of which individual
is the best qualified to be President and, in that context, I think my record of
performance in office is the best judgment that the voters can make. And I think
in the final analysis they will make it for me and against someone who hasn't
had the experience and the continuity in office.
PANAMA CANAL NEGOTIATIONS
[9] Q. Bonnie Angelo, Time Magazine.
The Panama Canal renegotiations have figured in the Texas primary, in
particular. In realistic terms, how important is the Panama Canal to our na-
tional defense?
THE PRESIDENT. The Panama Canal is not, in the overall context, as impor-
tant today as it was in the past, although it is still a very vital part of our ca-
pability to move from the east coast to the west coast. And what I am trying to
do is to maintain the usability of that canal without hindrance, without blood-
shed, without guerrilla warfare, and without antagonizing 309 million individ-
uals in South and Latin America. And if we break off those negotiations, it will
unquestionably lead to bloodshed, we will have guerrilla warfare, the possibility
of the canal being disabled. It would be very, very possible. So, what we are
trying to do is to preserve the usability of that canal ad infinitum, so to speak,
so that it will not be lost to us as a part of our economic and military needs and
necessities.
THE ECONOMY
[10.] Q. Mr. President, Bob Morrison with KTRH-Radio.
1302
