May 24
[515]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
think that we have a fighting chance. We have got great leadership in Bob List ยน
and the former mayor of Las Vegas, Oran Gragson, and we have a number of
other people that are strongly supporting my candidacy.
We are here for the purpose of setting forth the message that I think most
Americans support-that the Ford administration has restored confidence in
the White House; the Ford administration has turned the economy around from
a recession of a year ago to a situation where we have added 3,300,000 more jobs
in the last 12 months, 710,000 in the last month.
The record, also, on inflation is a good one. When I took office 21 months ago,
the rate of inflation was over 12 percent. For the first 4 months of 1976 it is 3
percent or less. And when we look at where the United States stands in the
world, we have achieved the peace, we're maintaining it and, because of our
military capability and our diplomatic skill, we intend to keep it for the next 4
years.
I would be glad to answer any questions.
Reporter. Mr. President, is there anything you can do to keep the IRS off the
backs of all the Nevadans? It seems like 1 out of 16 is being audited these days.
THE PRESIDENT. I think the IRS ought to treat all citizens, those in Nevada as
well as those in all 49 other States, very equitably, very fairly. And certainly,
the presumption ought to be that the taxpayers do pay all that they legally are
required to under our Internal Revenue Code. And if there is any discrimina-
tion against the people of Nevada, I'm opposed to it, and I will look into it.
Q. Carter says stop all bomb testing in Nevada. Mr. Reagan says he's not
quite sure. What do you say?
THE PRESIDENT. I think it is in the national interest of the United States to
continue our nuclear testing. It would be irresponsible, in my opinion, for the
United States to have a moratorium on nuclear developments and research and,
therefore, I very strongly disagree with Mr. Carter. And I am not uncertain as
to what the United States ought to do. We ought to do it for our national security
both domestically as well as internationally.
Q. Mr. President, regarding the New York story, the New York develop-
ments, this is a very generous move by Vice President Rockefeller to help to get
those delegates for you. How do you plan to repay him for this?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't expect to repay anybody for the delegates that come
to the Ford administration. I believe those delegates believe in the programs that
I have had for this country for the last 21 or 22 months. The people in New
1 Nevada State attorney general.
1681
