[515]
May 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
York-New York State as a whole, as well as the city-know that we have
achieved the peace, that we have turned the economy around and restored con-
fidence in the White House. And I think they made that move because they
believe in the Ford administration.
Q. Do you consider him a candidate for the Vice-Presidency?
THE PRESIDENT. The Vice President indicated to me a number of months ago
as you know, Helen [Helen Thomas, United Press International], that he did
not want to be considered for Vice President. The number of good Republicans.
who are qualified to be Vice President is a very large number.
Q. Does that mean you are taking him at his word?
The President. I always assume what people tell me is what they believe.
Q. There is some speculation he would like to be Secretary of State in a new
Ford administration. Would you look favorably towards that?
THE PRESIDENT. I've never discussed it with him.
It's real nice to see you, and we're looking forward to a very enjoyable time
here in Nevada. As I said, I've been in Nevada a good many times, covered a
lot of territory, and I'm optimistic about our opportunities.
Q. This is a gambling State. Will you make any bets on your outcome
tomorrow?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think we'll do very well.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The exchange began at 11:37 a m. at McCarran International Airport.
516
Remarks at the International Council of Shopping Centers
Convention in Las Vegas. May 24, 1976
Attorney General Bob List, Frank Orrico, Sylvan Cohen, members and guests
of the International Council of Shopping Centers:
It's a great privilege and a very high honor for me to have the opportunity
of addressing the International Council of Shopping Centers, and I'm deeply
grateful for your very cordial and warm welcome.
As much as I am in favor of a healthy and prosperous American automobile
industry, with some temerity I suggest that you not trade in a reliable Ford in
1976 for a flashier model. [Laughter]
George Washington once wrote a few years ago, "Let your discourse with men
1682
