[354]
April 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
indicated—bloodshed, riots, more U.S. troops down there, and the animosity and
antagonism of 309 million people in South America.
If you continue negotiations, as President Johnson did, his successor and I am
doing, you can continue to try and find an answer to avoid those things that I
think are wrong. So, I am delighted to have the position I am taking, and I think
my opponent's position is totally irresponsible.
Q. Mr. President, this will be the last question.
PUBLIC CONFIDENCE IN GOVERNMENT
[10.] Q. Mr. President, I'm Warren Maurer from WOWO in Fort Wayne.
Many of us in this room have just done an extensive survey of our communities
for our license renewal. And in addition to bureaucracy, which you have dis-
cussed, we see a real problem in the erosion of confidence in governmental
leaders. I wonder if you could discuss what we feel is a dangerous problem?
The President. I recognize that all the surveys you see indicate that the public
has very strong feelings against the Congress, against the judiciary, against the
White House. I think this is an outgrowth of some of the trauma that has taken
place in the span of time primarily during the Vietnamese war. I recognize that
we have to restore that confidence. We have tried to do it—and that is the only
part I can control-by frankness and candor, an open administration, and an
honest attempt by this administration to minimize the redtape and the bureauc-
racy and the attitude that bureaucrats too often have. We are doing our very best,
and I think everybody would admit that we are open and candid. And I hope
that in a period of time, we can convince them that our efforts are successful in
reducing bureaucracy and getting the right attitude on the part of Federal
employees. We are sure going to try.
Q. Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much. It is a privilege and a pleasure to be
here.
Thank you very much, Kelly [Kelly Atherton, president, Indiana Broadcasters
Association].
NOTE: The President spoke at *:45 a.m. in the Convention Room at the Rodeway Inn.
1168
