April 30
[405]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
proposals by those criteria, the facts are they won't reduce the price and they
won't provide any incentive and get more energy independence for this country.
So, I am against divestiture, period.
So, I believe in what this great, free enterprise system we have can do. It is
a precious freedom, just like the individual freedom that we have in America,
and we have got to fight to keep it, we have got to fight to expand it.
Dr. Murray, let me just say this. I suppose as an academician you know a
lot more about the history of this country than I do. But if we look back and
see the first century of America, we know that our forefathers put together the
greatest form of government in the history of mankind. It was a hard struggle
for those people in those days, starting from 13 poor, struggling Colonies, but
what a blessing they gave us.
The second century of our great national history, we became the most produc-
tive industrial country in the history of mankind.
Our third century has to emphasize the freedom of the individual. We have
to get away from mass government, mass education, mass industry, mass labor.
We have to generate the opportunity for every one of us and the things we
stand for as individuals, and that is what I would hope to do in the next 4 years
as President of the United States.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:20 p.m. at the resi-
dence of Robert Blake, chairman of the Lubbock
County President Ford Committee. He was intro-
duced by Senator John G. Tower, chairman of the
Texas President Ford Committee.
405
Exchange With Reporters on Arrival at Abilene, Texas.
April 30, 1976
GOOD AFTERNOON. How are you? It is great to be at Dyess Air Force
Base in Abilene, and I will be very delighted to answer any questions.
REPORTER. Mr. President, apparently the U.S. is fairly far behind the Russians
in terms of conventional weaponry, yet this spring we have seen the announce-
ment by the Pentagon of a great mass of base cutbacks of conventional weapons
and training bases, such as Webb Air Force Base in Big Springs. Can you
explain why a base like Webb, with a proven cost-efficiency like it has, would
be closed?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me talk specifically about Webb. That was a mandated
1383
