[517]
May 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
dent Ford Committee in this great State. We obviously have a lot of fine people
that are interested in making certain that we get a maximum vote and, as Bob
List was telling me this morning, in the State of Nevada the delegates are allo-
cated on a proportionate basis. So, every vote that you get, every vote that supports
the President and his policies, gives us a better and better opportunity to get more
and more delegates.
And, speaking of delegates, we got some good news this morning. The State
of New York had a convention of their delegates and 119 of them are pledged
for President Ford, 18 for my opponent, and 15 noncommitted, which takes our
delegate count up to 697. We're well on the road for a bandwagon in Kansas
City.
But let me say the countdown has started in Nevada as it has in five other
States on tomorrow. I want your help. I want your support so that we can con-
tinue the kind of programs of peace, prosperity, and trust for the next 4 years.
I won't let you down. I hope you can help me to the maximum tomorrow.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:53 p.m. in the
Meeting Room at the Las Vegas Convention Cen-
ter. In his opening remarks, he referred to Oran
Gragson, chairman, and Glen Mauldin, secretary/
treasurer, Nevada President Ford Committee, and
Robert List. Nevada State attorney general.
518
Exchange With Reporters on Arrival at San Diego, California.
May 24, 1976
GOOD AFTERNOON. It is great to be in San Diego. We've had an excellent
trip-Oregon, California, Nevada—and now we are here in San Diego. We're
trying to do the same here that we have done elsewhere on this trip-lay out
what the Ford administration believes in, what we've actually accomplished,
which can be summarized: peace, which we have achieved—we have, and we
intend to maintain; prosperity, which we didn't have a year ago but we're well
on the way to a total and I think a complete economic recovery—we've added
some 3,300,000 jobs in the last 12 months, over 700,000 in the last month; and
were restoring the kind of confidence and trust that I think the American
people want in their Government in Washington.
I am very pleased with the leadership that we have on my behalf in the State
of California. We recognize that we are an underdog, but I have won a few
1690
