May 2
[416]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
416
Remarks at a President Ford Committee and Friends for Ford
Reception in Fort Wayne. May 2, 1976
FORREST, let me thank you and all of you for being here. I understand this
is a combination of the President Ford Committee and the Friends of Ford
Committee.
I appreciate especially the fact that we got a lot of good Republicans here,
but I've met some very good Democrats, and we are grateful to have all of
them here, too. [Laughter]
Now, let me just make a comment or two. I know we have got great leader-
ship for my candidacy in the State of Indiana. I know that we have a great
many excellent volunteers, like all of you Republicans, Independents, Demo-
crats. I know we have got a good platform, and I know that if we go out with
those telephone calls and if we go up and down the block and tell the story, we
can win.
Let me give you some of the things I think are worthy of use when you talk
to somebody who has a question or two.
I only ask you to go back to August of 1974, when I was sworn in as President,
and let me tick off some of the problems we had and then let me recount for
you what I think is the record, the achievements between August of 1974 and
May of 1976.
In August of 1974, we were unfortunately having 12 percent or more infla-
tion. In the first 3 months of this year, 1976, we have cut the rate of inflation
down to under 3 percent. That is a 75-percent reduction in the rate of inflation.
I think that's real progress.
Secondly, when I was sworn in, we were on the brink of the worst economic
recession in the last 40 years. And there were many in the Congress, particu-
larly on one side of the aisle, which were trying to get me to spend more and
more money to try and do something about the economic problems we had.
But we didn't do that. We decided that it was better to take a firm, steady course
and not bust the Federal Treasury. And in the process, as I noted tonight over
there at the Coliseum, I vetoed 48 bills; 39 have been sustained, and we saved
the taxpayers $13 billion. Now, that's progress. But then we were faced with
unemployment that was going up and employment that was going down.
People were saying, “Well, you had to do this." I recall George Meany¹ say-
ing we were going to have unemployment of over 10 percent, and Hubert
¹ AFL-CIO president.
1417
