[420]
May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
years to maintain a strong and stable economy. Putting more than 15 million
people on the Federal payroll-or even a significant part or fraction of that
number-won't work. It's the wrong way. If it didn't bankrupt the economy,
it would surely be the beginning of the end of the private enterprise system in
America, and we won't let that happen.
As some of you may know, I vetoed 48 bills in the last 21 months, and in the
process, because 39 of them were sustained, we have saved the taxpayers $13
billion.
If the Humphrey-Hawkins bill gets to my desk, it's a big candidate for another
veto. And if, by chance, the Congress keeps sending me more and more irrespon-
sible spending bills, I will use my veto again and again and again.
I've done battle with inflation far too long to let it get out of control again as
the result of any irresponsible activity by the Congress.
When I took office as President, in August of 1974, the rate of inflation was
soaring at 12.2 percent. During the first 3 months of 1976, this year, the annual
rate of inflation was less than 3 percent. That is a 75-percent reduction, and
while the inflation news may not be that good every quarter, we have come a
long way, and we're going to keep the pressure on to do even better.
This low rate of inflation is one of the most encouraging of all the recovery
statistics that I have cited, because it means the boom we're experiencing this
year will not go bust next year.
But the most important recovery statistic is the index of consumers' confidence,
which is double what it was 12 months ago. In economic terms, that means the
American people are spending more money, moving more goods, and even
willing to borrow again for major purposes for the future. In broader terms, it
means the American people are looking to the future with faith instead of fear.
It means that after years of war and turmoil and adversity, of hopes unfulfilled
and promises broken, America is ready to face the world and face the future
again with optimism, reality, and with courage.
The course we take in the next 4 years will shape America's future for many,
many more years to come. I want to pursue the steady course that leads to peace
through strength, from recession to recovery, from cynicism to confidence, from
fear to faith. And that is why I'm delighted to be here to respond to your ques-
tions and seek your help and assistance for the next 4 years.
Thank you very kindly. I'll be glad to answer your questions.
1450
