[505]
May 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
ensure that nuclear agreements are being lived up to. It's a good deal for the
United States, and again I am proud of it. I intend to sign it in a simultane-
ous ceremony in the very near future.
Finally, we are continuing negotiations to reduce the NATO and Warsaw
Pact forces that face each other all across central Europe. This is the only place
where American and Russian ground forces are positioned literally eyeball-to-
eyeball and thus involves the danger of triggering a direct confrontation,
The issues are very complex in these mutual and balanced reduction of forces
talks which involve our allies in NATO and the members of the Warsaw Pact.
Progress has been slow, but we intend to continue them because agreement
would enhance military stability in Western and Eastern Europe at lower force
levels. That would permit us to bring some of our troops home from Europe, as
well as to reduce the level of allied forces on both sides.
Any agreements we reach in areas I have discussed will require Senate debate
and ratification. Any suggestions that we are doing something in secret or not
taking a tough line is just so much nonsense. We are as tough as anyone can be
without junking the possibility of an agreement.
Whenever I get a good agreement for a safer world, you can be sure I won't
pass it up for any political advantage or disadvantage.
Turning from direct arms negotiations with the Soviets, let's look for a mo-
ment at the Middle East. There we are determined to maintain the momentum
of the Sinai agreement, in which the leaders of both Egypt and Israel trusted the
United States sufficiently to take an historic first step toward a peace settlement
after decades of distrust and four costly wars.
We have demonstrated our friendship and fairness towards a moderate Arab
State, and at the same time strongly reaffirmed our commitment to the security
and to the survival of Israel.
Only the United States can exercise such influence for peace and stability in
this very volatile region, and I am proud of the progress that our country has
contributed in this very difficult area.
Finally, there is Africa. It contains a wealth of resources and many newly
independent nations. It commands the sea lanes of the South Atlantic and the
Indian Ocean, and the Soviets are interested in all these things.
When we tried by a relatively small amount of military aid without involv-
ing a single American soldier to help the two authentic elements in Angola
against the Soviet-sponsored faction, Congress said no, you can't spend a penny
to save Angola. That was last December.
Our own political paralysis, the military success of Cuban mercenaries in
1648
