[362]
April 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
proposed extension that I recommended DeKalb County would receive
$32,600,000 and all of Georgia would receive more than $830 million over the
next 5 years.
In proposing a new lease on life for revenue sharing and in reducing the red-
tape of Federal programs, I am acting on a belief I have held as long as I have
been in public office. That belief can be summed up in a single sentence: A
government big enough to give us everything we want is a government big
enough to take from us everything we have. What we need in America is not
a government that promises more and more all the time; what we need and
what my administration has sought and tried to achieve is a government
that promises only what we can deliver and delivers everything that we promise.
We all know that it was not our government that made America great as
a nation-the government's role was to guarantee the people's freedom and
build a nation for themselves. With that freedom, we have built the greatest
nation in the history of the world.
America today is unsurpassed in military capability. We have the greatest
industrial capacity in the history of mankind. Our farmers outproduce every-
one in history. We lead the world in education, science and technology, and
we have the greatest moral, spiritual, and religious resources of any modern
nation.
I see more progress in store for America. As we enter our third century of in-
dependence I see America regaining confidence in itself and in its destiny.
I see a nation living in peace and in freedom, in more than 200 million Ameri-
cans living in dignity, security, and prosperity.
This is my vision of America for the future. I think it is the vision of all
Americans, and I would love to work with all of you and 200 million other
Americans for the next 4 years to get a good headstart on that vision.
Thank you very much. And, now, let's get the questions underway.
QUESTIONS
PANAMA CANAL NEGOTIATIONS
[1.] Q. Mr. President, here is my question: Your contender, Ronald Reagan,
has been hammering away at your foreign policy, stating in effect that the
United States has been pushed around long enough and that if he were elected
President he would initiate a get-tough policy. As an example, his comments
on the Panama Canal Zone. My question, Mr. Ford, is: In your opinion, how
1194
