[326]
April 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
your candidacy-do these two facts eliminate these men from consideration of
possible Vice-Presidential candidates, and how about a Ford-George Bush
sticker?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, as I have said many times, you have a lot of fine people
here in Texas. John Tower is one who has committed himself and has an out-
standing record in the United States Congress. George Bush, unfortunately, and
very regrettably, when he continued to have his name before the Senate, in
effect, took his own candidacy out. I think that was very unfortunate and very
unfair, but that is what happened. Naturally, I would be very pleased if John
Connally would endorse me, but that is a decision he has to make. I think it is
premature at this time to establish any criteria for any Vice-Presidential can-
didate. I have to win first, and then we will make some judgments on that.
REPORTER. Thank you very much.
THE PRESIDENT. It is nice to see you all.
NOTE: The exchange began at 11:58 a.m. at the El Paso International Airport.
I
327
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session at the Annual
Convention of the Texas Grain and Feed Association in
El Paso. April 10, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Mr. Jones. Senator John Tower, Mayor Henderson,
members and guests of the Texas Grain and Feed Association:
It is really a very great honor and a very high privilege for me to have the op-
portunity of addressing this convention of your wonderful association, and I
thank you very deeply for the opportunity.
Coming to Texas is always a special treat for me, and it is especially satisfying
in the springtime. As we have traveled around Texas for the last day and a half,
John Tower and myself, your countryside obviously is alive and humming with
farm machinery of every description.
Spring is a time of new birth, new optimism, and this year there is a lot to be
optimistic about. As the State which produces more cattle and grain sorghum
than any other, Texas has played a very major part in one of the most successful
farming years in America's history.
In fact, the last 3 years have been the highest net farm income in history, and
that is a tremendous record. I don't think it is a mere coincidence that these 3
1078
