456]
May 11
Public Papers of the Presidents
456
Statement Announcing Plans for the Construction of
Replacement Veterans Administration Hospitals. May 11, 1976
WE OWE our veterans the finest in the way of medical care. One of my first
acts as President was to consider the Quality of Care Survey which made
recommendations for improvement in the Veterans Administration medical
care systems, and I am pleased that in the last 2 years we have been able to im-
plement those recommendations. I have asked in my last two budget submissions
for approximately 9,000 new staff positions for the medical care program of the
Veterans Administration, and I have also asked for over $600 million for
needed repairs and construction to assure the safety and quality of VA facilities.
My 1977 budget request of over $4 billion for VA medical care activities was
a record high for the system.
I have considered the recommendations of Administrator of Veterans Affairs,
Richard Roudebush, on another important step in our effort to provide quality
medical care to our veterans-the construction of eight major replacement
hospitals throughout the country. The eight proposed facilities have been the
subject of a series of planning studies conducted by independent contractors.
These studies were undertaken in response to a congressional expression that
hospitals be built and were subsequently reviewed by the Administrator who
gave me his recommendations as to the relative priority to be assigned to the
construction of each proposed new hospital.
I have today advised the Administrator of my decision to proceed immedi-
ately to provide design funds for all eight hospitals. I will also seek con-
struction funds in fiscal year 1977 for the two projects assigned the highest
priority by the Administrator-Richmond, Virginia, and Bay Pines, Florida.
To implement this decision, I will shortly ask the Congress to provide an ad-
ditional $249 million above my previous budget request for VA construction.
I have also decided to seek construction funds for the other six replacement
hospitals at the rate of two a year for the succeeding 3 fiscal years. These proj-
ects would be funded in accordance with the VA's priority ranking. In addition
to Richmond and Bay Pines, the other locations are Martinsburg, West Virginia;
Portland, Oregon; Seattle, Washington; Little Rock, Arkansas; Baltimore,
Maryland; and Camden, New Jersey.
My actions today do not include decisions on construction details and the
1528
