April 22
[352]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
In addition, I suggested to the Congress that we tighten up the control of these
cheap handguns called Saturday Night Specials. A few years ago the Congress
passed legislation to prohibit the importation of Saturday Night Specials from
overseas. But the people who make them overseas, what they did to evade the law
was to send the parts to the United States, and they have been assembled in our
country.
Now, those cheap handguns are not guns that any gun fancier keeps. Those
guns are cheap, inaccurate guns that ought not to be on the street, and we not
only ought to prohibit their importation but we ought to prohibit their sale
in this country.
Now, one other thing that I did recommend: we have about 10 major metro-
politan areas in this country where guns have contributed very significantly as
a weapon in the numerous murders that have taken place in those areas. In
order to try and control the illegal use of guns in those major metropolitan areas,
I have asked the Congress for additional funds for more people for the alcohol,
tax [tobacco] and firearms division of the Department of Treasury so that they
can do a better job in those areas.
Now, let me add one final feature: I don't want anybody in this audience to
get the wrong impression. I am not for the kind of gun control that some people
advocate. I do not believe we should penalize the legitimate owner of a firearm,
period. I, therefore, am opposed to the registration of a gunowner, and I am
opposed to the registration of handguns.
ALL-VOLUNTEER MILITARY FORCE
[4.] Q. Mr. President, my question is this: If the voluntary Army is not suffi-
cient for our national defense, will there ever be a need for another mandatory
registration for military service?
THE PRESIDENT. We now have 2,100,000 men and women in the Army, the
Navy, the Air Force, and Marines. We are able to sustain that active duty man-
power under the voluntary Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marine program.
I happen to be a great advocate, have been for a long time, of an all-volunteer
military force. I think it is working. As a matter of fact, because of its success
we have not only gotten more recruits than we need but we have been able to
increase the intelligence level of those who are being accepted. So, we are not
only getting volunteers for a longer period of time but the intelligence capability
of those who are recruited is above what it was when we had the draft.
I am absolutely convinced as long as we have a well-led military force, as long
as we create the right environment, as long as we pay them a proper wage, and
1153
