[322]
April 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
by far than the Soviet Union. We don't have more missiles, but missiles don't
destroy targets. It's warheads that destroy targets. So, isn't it better to have more
warheads than missiles? Our missiles and warheads are more accurate than
theirs, and accuracy is a very important thing in a weapons system that goes
5,000 miles. And our launchers are more survivable. So, in the areas where we
want a greater strength than anybody-warheads, accuracy, survivability-we
have got it, and we are way ahead.
Now, you can take strategic airplanes-and all of you in this great State
know all about them. Our B-52's, we outnumber them-what is it, 3 to 1,
John-closer to 4 to 1, I think, in strategic aircraft. And our B-52's are being
replaced on a responsible level with our B-l's, which is a great aircraft. So, what
I am saying is, you have to look at the actual programs, and you have to compare
apples and apples and not apples and oranges.
Now, I have heard somebody say that the Soviet Union has 4,200,000 men
under arms and that the United States has 2,100,000-that is right. But that
doesn't really equate the reality. We have Canada to the North, and we don't
have a single soldier from the Pacific to the Atlantic. We have Mexico to the
South. We don't have a single soldier that mans the border between Mexico
and the United States.
The Soviet Union, what do they have? On their eastern border, they have the
People's Republic of China with 800 million people and a thousand miles of
border where there is controversy every day. So, they have half, at least or more
of their military manpower there. Their western border is NATO, Western
Europe. They have the rest of their forces there. You just can't take numbers, you
have to understand. And all I ask of responsible people like all of you and your
many friends in Dallas-listen to a fellow like John Tower, he knows what he
is talking about.
Well, it's real nice to see you all. I guess the rest of the Ford family is coming
down to the great State of Texas. I understand Betty is coming down. You know
she always goes and campaigns in order to get my votes up to her polls.
[Laughter] And I guess Jack is coming down here, and we can get the rest of
them down here if they will help the old man.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 6:18 p.m. in the Gold
Room at the Fairmont Hotel. He was introduced by
Senator John G. Tower, chairman of the Texas
President Ford Committee.
In his opening remarks, the President referred to
Trammell Crow, vos harman
tee of the Texas President Ford Committer, and
Farne Young and F R. Haggar, « «hairmen of the
Dallas President Ford Committee.
1056
