May 14
[481]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
And where are we today? We have got 3,300,000 more people working today
than a year ago. We have 87,400,000 people gainfully employed in America—
the most gainfully employed in the history of the United States.
I guess you can summarize it, because of the policies that I initiated, the
policies that I implemented, the policies that have been successful that have
come out of this administration, the Oval Office, everything that is supposed
to be going up is going up and everything that is supposed to be going down
is going down. That's not a bad record, either.
So, I am delighted to see you all, and I am delighted to see so many good
Republicans. I have been in Memphis when there were considerably fewer than
this, and as Dan Kuykendall¹ would verify, I have been here a good many
years ago on a number of occassions to try and help build a Republican Party.
I think it's the party that has the right philosophy, and I think I've done a good
job as the head of the Republican Party for the last 21 months.
And therefore, I very strongly urge, and I strongly would appreciate your
support on May 25.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:36 p.m. in the
Dunster Room at the Holiday Inn Rivermont. In
his opening remarks, he referred to Senator Howard
H. Baker, Jr., and Representative James H.
Quillen.
481
Exchange With Reporters on Arrival at Louisville, Kentucky.
May 14, 1976
GOOD AFTERNOON. It is real nice to be here with my good friend, Tim
Lee Carter, and Thruston Morton and Ambassador John Sherman Cooper and
other leaders of the Republican Party. We had a good, full day in Tennessee,
and now it is great to be in Kentucky.
I know that some people have raised the question from time to time, “Well,
why doesn't President Ford get out and spend 7 days a week on the campaign
trail?” The answer is very simple. We have to have a President. I work pretty
full-time at that. And the net result is we have, I think, had some good programs
and great success, whether it is in the field of foreign policy—and I think John
Sherman Cooper could be a good witness to that our success in Western Europe.
¹U.S. Representative from Tennessee 1967-75.
1585
