May 17
[493]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
action of yours—sending that message to Congress 2-$25 million, to which Con-
gress acted and responded—the way that has touched the Italian people.
We were over there. We arrived, and people—an old lady who had lost her
husband came up and embraced me. Everywhere we went people just came up
to thank you for what the American people were doing in standing with them,
standing with Italians is the way they felt, in their suffering.
I was talking to a doctor in one of the tents, and I might just say that half
the population—out of 180,000 people, 90,000 people-lost their homes. And
they are in tents, big tents, 20 people in one tent, beds just next to each other,
like that, in two rows, and one chair and a basin.
We were in there. It was raining for 2 days—and the mud. I was talking to the
doctor in this village who was strong, taking care of the people. And when I
went out of the tent, they said, “He didn't say so, but he lost his daughter and
his mother."
THE PRESIDENT. You were telling me of the one woman in the hospital who
lost seven children.
THE VICE PRESIDENT. Six children she had lost. I came in, and we went to the
hospital. There were 1,000 people killed and about 2,500 in the hospital—and
90,000 homes-but the hospital was taking the people in. Her husband was
there. I came in and was going down the ward, and he just came over and
threw his arms around me and he just gripped me. She was absolutely unable to
even react. She lost all her family. Her leg was crushed. It was extraordinary.
But the response to America, they just feel-and as I said, we are all in a fam-
ily together, and your people helped build our country and now you are in
trouble. We are with you, thanks to the President and the Congress.
But the extraordinary thing was, they weren't complaining about what hap-
pened. Their courage, their dignity, their strength is fantastic. All they want to
do—the one thing on their minds is how can they get materials to start rebuild-
ing their homes. They don't want to move out of there.
THE PRESIDENT. The $25 million that I recommended, and Congress has ap-
proved, will be under the guidance of Dan Parker of AID.
Dan, do you want to give us a quick rundown of what we are doing?
MR. PARKER. As the Vice President indicated, Mr. President, our objective
is to get our assistance to the people as quickly as possible. There are many small
villages in this area. In this area about 50 villages were either totally or very
substantially destroyed.
2 See Item 453.
1619
