April 22
[350]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
industrial capacity in the history of mankind. Our farmers outproduce every-
one in history. We are ahead in education, science, and technology. We have
the greatest moral and spiritual resources of any modern nation.
Let us resolve today to build upon those great strengths, so that 100 years
from now our great grandchildren can look back and say they, too, are proud of
America and proud to be Americans.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:31 a.m. in Con-
stitution Hall. In his opening remarks, he referred
to Mrs. Wakelee Rawson Smith, president general
of the Daughters of the American Revolution.
350
Remarks Upon Receiving an Award From the Big
Brothers of America. April 22, 1976
THANK YOU very, very much, Mr. Schwarz. Let me thank you very much
for giving me the privilege and opportunity of serving as the honorary chair-
man of the Big Brothers program. I have known about the Big Brothers program
for a number of years. It started, as I understand it, back in 1903, and it has had
a superb record over the years in giving recognition to big brothers who help
little brothers.
With that comment, I want to congratulate Herb Buchanan for being the Big
Brother of the Year, and I also want to express to Rick Proctor here my appre-
ciation for the wonderful job he has done in being the Little Brother of the
Year. My very best to you.
As we look around this country and see the tremendous job that is being done
by the Big Brothers organization-men who have taken the responsibility of
fatherless boys and given them an opportunity and a blessing that only can come
from a father—I think people like Herb Buchanan here and others deserve a
great deal of credit.
I know that Rick understands how meaningful it has been to him and to
literally thousands of others to have an opportunity for the guidance and the
help and assistance of somebody like Herb Buchanan.
There is no question, Rick, that as you grow older and assume your position
and responsibilities in our life in this country, you can look back on this experi-
ence with Herb and Mrs. Buchanan, who I suspect has had some impact, that
you will be a much finer citizen than you would have been if you had not had
exposure to the Big Brothers. So, good luck to you.
1145
