June 17
[603]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
contributions which I proposed earlier this year would bring the system into
current balance.
In order to protect both those who currently receive benefits and those who
are contributing to the system towards their future retirement, I urge the
Congress to move immediately to enact these two vital proposals into law.
GERALD R. FORD
The White House,
June 17, 1976.
603
Remarks on Greeting Participants in the National Teen-Age
Republican Leadership Conference. June 17, 1976
LET ME at the outset welcome all of you-and I mean all of you—to the
White House this afternoon. I am always pleased and delighted to have the
opportunity of meeting with the representatives of the Teen-age Republicans. I
have done it for a good many years—when I was a Congressman, when I was
minority leader, when I was Vice President, and since I have been President. And
I compliment you here today, and I compliment those in the past who have par-
ticipated as teenagers and those who have grown and participated in later life as
active Republican leaders and active Republican participants.
As I look at the some 250 of you here, as I understand, coming from some
8,000 chapters throughout the country, I can see that the future of the Republican
Party is in good hands. It is the party of Lincoln, it is the party of Teddy Roose-
velt, it is the party of Ike Eisenhower, and, therefore, I am optimistic about the
future of the Republican Party.
Your enthusiasm and your campaign experience will make our campaign in
1976 a lot easier for the candidates and for the party as a whole. And this year
you are going to play a very special role. Your hard work, your dedication may
well make the difference in electing Republicans across the board, not just at
the national level but at the State level and at the local level.
I happen to believe this is a great year—a year of great promise for the Re-
publican Party. I have traveled around the country a good bit in the 22 months
since I have been President, but especially this year I find that there is a feeling
among the American people that they want to return to some of the sound Re-
1891
