[569]
June 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
ing pride. We must live our ideals so that America will find true peace,
prosperity, and justice at home, and thus help to realize these dreams around the
world.
I intend to see that Congress and the executive branch of the Federal Govern-
ment find a cooperative way of working together so that essential national
policies can go forward with full national unity behind them. This is a program
for peace. I intend to make it a reality.
Let us heed the words of the 34th Psalm, which urges us all to seek peace and
to pursue it. As we never cease our vigilance, let us never lose our vision of
what we want the world to be. This is the spirit of the National Conference
of Christians and Jews. This is the highest responsibility of a President.
Thank you very much.
NOTE The President spoke at 8:53 pm. in the
Grand Ballroom at the Sheraton Cleveland Hotel.
In his opening remarks, he referred to Thomas
Vail and Abe N. Luntz, cochairmen of the Cleve-
land office, and David Hiatt, nationa' president.
National Conference of Christians and Jews: Gov
James A. Rhodes of Ohio and Ma. « Ralph Perk
at Cleveland.
570
Exchange With Reporters on Arrival at Cincinnati, Ohio.
June 6, 1976
GOOD EVENING, everybody. It's nice to be in Cincinnati. We have had a
good day, first in New Jersey and up in Cleveland. It is nice to be in Cincinnati
this evening, and we are looking forward to tomorrow morning.
I do want to thank Governor Rhodes, I want to thank Bob Taft, I want to
thank Gordon Scherer, I want to thank Clarence Miller, and I want to thank
all the other members of the congressional delegation who have been helpful
and supportive of my nomination.
Let me just make very clear what the message is of the Ford administration
as we come into the great State of Ohio. The message is very straightforward,
very simple: The Ford administration has been open, been candid and very
frank in trying to restore the trust and confidence in the White House. I think
we have made a lot of progress, and in the next 4 years we can do even better.
The Ford administration inherited a very bad economic situation. We were
having 12 percent inflation. In the last 22 months we have cut it from 12 percent
to 3 percent or less. That is a 75-percent reduction. That's sizable, I think,
progress in this area.
We inherited a serious economic problem, such as the recession that a year
1824
