June 6
[560]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
the future, but who has built a wonderful present for all of us and those to come
in the future.
To Kay Shouse.
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:53 p.m. In his opening remarks, he referred to Rita Clements, chairman
of the dinner.
560
Interview on CBS News' "Face the Nation." June 6, 1976
[Dated June 5, 1976. Released June 6, 1976]
VIEWS ON A REAGAN PRESIDENCY
GEORGE HERMAN, CBS News. [1.] Mr. President, in the course of the campaign,
you have said some fairly strong things about some of Ronald Reagan's policies.
You have also said that he is much farther to the right than the majority of
Americans. If he were to be elected President, would it be a dangerous or
uncomfortable Presidency for the United States?
THE PRESIDENT. First, I don't assume that he is going to be nominated, and
if he is not nominated he won't be elected. Therefore, I really haven't anticipated
that we would have 4 years of a Reagan administration. I do have some differ-
ences with him as to the course of foreign policy, how to handle it. I do have
some differences with him in certain specifics in domestic policy. But these are
things that I think a man would learn from experience if he held this office, and
therefore, he might change when he is dealing with reality and not dealing
on the political campaign.
CALIFORNIA PRIMARY ELECTION
[2.] MR. HERMAN. President Ford, you say you are not making the assump-
tion that Ronald Reagan will get the nomination or be elected, but the problem
lies ahead of you now for Tuesday in California. Some political experts think
you are going to have a really tough time at the convention if you don't win
a good hunk of California's votes-say 45 percent. Can you do it?
THE PRESIDENT. We are very encouraged by the last 3 days. I talked to some
people in California, and I have gotten reports from our people in California,
and we think we are coming from an underdog position with new momentum,
and we believe we are closing the gap, and we think that there is an opportunity
1793
