[638]
July 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
realign, and close military installations and activities since 1969. These actions
have enabled us to sustain the combat capability of our armed forces while
reducing annual Defense costs by more than $4 billion. For realignment pro-
posals already announced for study, section 612 could increase fiscal year 1978
budgetary requirements for defense by $150 million and require retention, at
least through fiscal year 1977, of approximately 11,300 military and civilian
personnel positions not needed for essential base activities.
The nation's taxpayers rightly expect the most defense possible for their tax
dollars. I am certain Congress does not intend unnecessary or arbitrary increases
in the tax burden of the American people. Numerous congressional reports on
national defense demonstrate the desire by the Congress to trim unnecessary
defense spending and personnel. I cannot approve legislation that would result
in waste and inefficiency at the expense of meeting our essential military
requirements.
The White House,
July 2, 1976.
NOTE: The Senate sustained the President's veto on July 22, 1976.
GERALD R. FORD
639
Remarks at a Bicentennial Ceremony at the
National Archives. July 2, 1976
Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Speaker, Mr. Chief Justice, distinguished
guests, ladies and gentlemen:
I am standing here before the great charters of American liberty under law.
Millions of Americans, before me and after me, will have looked and lingered
over these priceless documents that have guided our 200 years of high adven-
ture as "a new nation, conceived in Liberty, and dedicated to the proposition
that all men are created equal." Those were Lincoln's words as he looked to
the Declaration of Independence for guidance when a raging storm obscured
the Constitution. We are gathered here tonight to honor both.
Even the way these parchments are displayed is instructive-together, as
they must be historically understood, the Constitution and its first 10 amend-
ments on an equal plane; the Declaration of Independence properly central
and above all.
The Declaration is the Polaris of our political order-the fixed star of free-
1954
