[538]
May 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
always reminding me of several plants out there. I don't want to advertise one
over another, so I will just say general aviation manufacturing and production.
[Laughter]
Now, I will be glad to answer any general questions. I am just a user, or
was a user, not a technician. But if you have any questions as to the application
of this or other details, I am sure we have people here that can respond to them.
But from what I know, I am very pleased that they-the Department of Com-
merce-took some affirmative action and moved in the right direction.
FRANK E. HEDRICK. I think that is proper, Mr. President, and I am the chair-
man of the GAM organization and also president of Beech Aircraft, the one
you spoke of earlier. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. I have flown in a few of them.
MR. HEDRICK. I have a very simple statement here I would like to read to
you in response.
"On behalf of the General Aviation Manufacturers Association Board of Di-
rectors, we sincerely thank you for the regulatory reform you have just an-
nounced, and that is genuine.
"With this action, our Government has improved the procedures for exports,
potentially expanded the employment levels as a result of better export oppor-
tunities, and reduced both the cost of Government and the cost of doing business.
"Hopefully, this action will improve the export posture and add to the U.S.
balance of trade.
“Mr. President, we look forward to the future with increased optimism. To be
in our business you have to be optimistic. [Laughter]
"Knowing of your recognition of the general aviation industry is a comfort.
As you know, general aviation is playing a growing role in the transportation sys-
tem, both in the United States and in the world. We appreciate your help in
furthering this industry."
Thank you, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much. I hope and trust we can work together
on some of the other problems that involve both Government and your industry,
and I will pledge you the same kind of cooperation in those areas as we have
tried to exhibit in this instance.
MR. HEDRICK. Thank you very much.
THE PRESIDENT. Is the industry doing well?
MR. HEDRICK. Quite well. We are having our best year in 1976 that we have
had in our history, both in units and dollars. We had quite a controversy within
our own organization-
1760
