[357]
April 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
357
Remarks at a President Ford Committee Reception in
Evansville, Indiana. April 23, 1976
FIRST, let me thank your wonderful, wonderful Governor, Doc Bowen, for
all the courtesies and support. It is just a great privilege and pleasure to come
to the great State of Indiana, to have his support and, Doc, I can't thank you
enough.
It is wonderful to come back to Evansville and to see Russ Lloyd here and to
have had a very warm reception that we received over at the Civic Center. I
enjoyed it; the questions were good-I hope the answers were okay.
But I am principally here to thank all of the volunteers who are here in this
part of the great State of Indiana for the tremendous support that you are
giving me. I know that under the leadership that we have here in the State-
where is Don? There he is. Thanks, Don, for your leadership. But all of the
people who are here and that we have met up in Indianapolis are, you know-
they just make me feel as though we are going to win, and we are.
Let me give you a few selling points that you might use occasionally in
talking to some of those that have not made up their minds yet. Some of you
man phones-some of you call from your own residences, some of you talk
to your neighbors, some of you talk to others. I think that if we look back
over the last 20 months you will find that we have made very substantial head-
way in meeting the challenges domestically and meeting the problems that
we have had internationally.
Let's take a quick look at where we were in August of 1974. First, we were
faced with inflation at a rate of anywhere from 12 to 14 percent. Because of
sound, constructive, responsible policies, we have reduced that inflation rate so
that for the first 4 months of 1976 the rate of inflation is under 3 percent, and
that is progress.
Shortly after I became President we were faced with the worst economic
problems this country has been faced with in 40 years. Because we have the right
policies we have taken the unemployment from almost 9 percent down to 7.5
percent. The trend is in the right direction and we are going to keep it going
down, down, down.
The best selling points you have is that in the last 10 to 12 months we have
Donald B. Cox, chairman of the Indiana President Ford Committer
1182
