May 12
[462].
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
is up 3½ million more than last year. The last report showed that we had
87,400,000 people working in America—the highest figure in the history of the
United States.
And instead of 12- or 14-percent inflation, we have cut it over 50 percent. For
the first 3 months of 1976, it's less than 3 percent. So, let me quickly summarize
it. Everything that should be going up is going up, and everything that should
be going down is going down. America is on the verge of a boom, and that's
what we want and that's what we worked for.
But let me quickly refresh your memory to what was the circumstance in
August of 1974 as far as peace. Yes, after the trauma of 1973 and early '74, our
allies abroad were worried about the will and the resolution of the American
people. Our adversaries were uncertain as to whether we were going to be
weak or strong, and whether they could or should exploit the situation here at
home. But what the Ford administration did was first, to restore the faith
of our allies in the strength of America and the resolution of 215 million
Americans strong, deep believers in our form of government that is the best
by any standards in the history of mankind.
And let me say this as we move ahead. There have been some individuals
who have attempted to downgrade this country's capabilities in a military and
diplomatic way. But what is the standard by which you judge the way we
handle our foreign affairs and the way we handle our military capability? The
objective of all of it is the achievement and the maintenance of peace. And we
have peace today. And I am proud to say to every one of you, that I am the first
President in 20 years who can go to the American people seeking election or
reelection, who can say that America is at peace. The fact that we are at peace
is because we are strong and because we are resolute. And we are going to
stay that way by strengthening our relations with our allies and convincing our
adversaries that America means what it says.
But let us turn now to the last fact that I think we ought to take a look at. In
August of 1974, there had been a shocking series of scandals in the highest
offices in our land, and the American people had lost a lot of confidence in
their government. And the net result was we had to restore that confidence.
The Ford administration has been open, it has been candid, it has been forth-
right. And I can look every American in the eye and say that we have worked
at the restoration of confidence and the strengthening of integrity in the White
House. And I can be proud of the fact that as we travel around the country,
people have faith in the path of integrity and honesty that this administration
has tread for the last 21 months.
1545
