[633]
July 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
responsibility for governmental action with the Cabinet officers and their re-
spective agencies. The Office of Drug Abuse Policy flies in the face of this objec-
tive, and adds to the bureaucracy a redundant layer that will have no direct
management responsibilities. The drug abuse area-including treatment, en-
forcement, and international narcotics control-already has the necessary co-
ordinating mechanisms and resources to accomplish its objectives. Likewise, I
already have Cabinet officers, agency heads, and others to provide me advice on
drug abuse matters. I do not need another Office with two officials with salaries
of $42,000 (ODAP Director) and $39,900 (ODAP Deputy Director) to dupli-
cate their work. Lastly, the annual preparation of the budget provides an effec-
tive process for identification and resolution of Executive Branch policy issues.
The attached chart displays the following coordinating mechanisms that
already exist for Federal drug abuse treatment, law enforcement, and inter-
national activities:
-Domestic Council
-Drug Abuse Cabinet Committees
-National Security Council
-Office of Management and Budget
The Cabinet Committees will assure that various Federal agencies' efforts
are integrated into an effective overall program but will keep responsibility for
specific program management with the appropriate agencies. The Congres-
sional committees can call upon the heads of the Cabinet Committees or agen-
cies with drug abuse responsibilities to testify concerning my Administration's
policies whenever there is a need. I see no need for one more drug abuse
spokesperson.
Administration Drug Abuse Initiatives to Date. During my Administration,
the following initiatives have been taken demonstrating the priority I have
placed on drug abuse:
-I launched a complete review of Federal drug abuse policies, and then
endorsed the resultant White Paper on Drug Abuse.
—I have requested funding for fiscal year 1977 totaling over $780 million for
Federal drug abuse programs to maintain existing programs and to imple-
ment the major recommendations of the White Paper, c.g., additional
community treatment capacity and better targeting of law enforcement
efforts at high level traffickers.
-I have met with the heads of the governments of Turkey, Mexico and
Colombia to strengthen and improve our international drug abuse efforts.
1944
