May 12
[461]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
on the basis of brains and ability and experience would be one that ought to be
considered. But I don't want to tilt one way or another at this point. We've got
our own problems we better solve first. [Laughter]
GOVERNOR MILLIKEN. Mr. President, Russ advises me that this is the last
question. Two questions. [Laughter] We know who's in charge here, that's
right. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Can't I be the good guy for a change?
GOVERNOR MILLIKEN. There will be two more questions, Russ.
MIDDLE EAST POLICY
Will you please briefly define your Middle East policy?
THE PRESIDENT. The Middle East policy is aimed at following the U.N. Reso-
lutions 242 and 338 which were agreed to by, I think, almost a unanimous vote
in the United Nations a few years ago. Those two resolutions are the guidelines
for the settlement of a long and controversial problem in the most volatile area
of the world. It means that we have to have a permanent peace, we have to have
readjustments in territory, we have to have the disavowal of military action.
It will follow, of course, the two successive steps that this government, our
government, has been involved in-first, the settlement of the Yom Kippur war
and then the very major step of a few months ago when we were able to get an
agreement between Egypt and Israel for the Sinai agreement. This was a very
important step, but it is not the final answer. We have to follow the guidelines,
as I indicated, of Resolutions 242 and 338 in the United Nations.
THE PRESIDENT'S PRIORITY FOR THE UNITED STATES
GOVERNOR MILLIKEN. And the final question, what do you consider your top
priority for this country?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me put it this way: The first century of our country was
devoted to the establishment of a viable, working government, a great experi-
ment in self-government by people.
The second century of our country was a century of industrial progress
where America became the most powerful industrial nation in the history of
mankind. As we moved to the establishment of the kind of government that
we have, that we love, and as we moved to become the most productive nation
in the history of mankind, whether it is in industry or agriculture, almost in-
evitably we have found that we are the victims of mass government, mass
industry, mass labor, mass education, maybe mass religion.
I think the third century of this country ought to be focused on the rights
1543
