[418]
May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
to trade that for campaign rhetoric, which is what my opponent has basically
based his campaign on.
PANAMA CANAL AS A CAMPAIGN ISSUE
[8.] Q. Mr. President, from the questions you receive around the country
at Republican forums, it's apparent that Governor Reagan is controlling the is-
sues in this campaign. In your post-mortem on Sunday, when you met with
your campaign leaders, I wonder if you can tell us if you have devised any kind
of strategy to perhaps take the offensive instead of always reacting to the charges
from the former Governor?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think there will be any basic change, Aldo [Aldo B.
Beckman, Chicago Tribune Press Service], in our campaign program, between
now and Kansas City. We always recognized it was going to be a very hard
contest and it would probably get more heated as the campaign went on, but
we have had some help and assistance just within the last 24 to 48 hours.
For example, on "Meet the Press" Sunday, Senator Barry Goldwater came out
very forthrightly on my behalf as far as my policy on the Panama Canal is
concerned. And this kind of assistance, I think, helps to undercut the validity
and the credibility of Governor Reagan's various charges.
And again, I would like to quote from the "Meet the Press" program on which
Senator Goldwater appeared. And when he was asked this question on the
Panama Canal-the question is as follows: "On the Panama Canal, who is right
on that? Whose position do you support? Ford's or Reagan's?" And Senator
Goldwater said the following: "I have to support Ford's position on it, and I
think Reagan would, too, if he knew more about it."
RONALD REAGAN'S DELEGATE SUPPORT
[9.] Q. Mr. President, if you should lose the three on Tuesday, which you
don't expect to do, Governor Reagan would have more delegates than you have,
I believe.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I'm not going to speculate on something I don't think
is going to take place.
THE PRESIDENT'S CAMPAIGN EXPENSES
[10.] Q. Mr. President, Senator Paul Laxalt, the Citizens for Reagan chair-
man, this morning, underscored what he called the inequities of the Federal
election law, saying they favor you, especially in air travel. He cited some
$600,000.
1438
