[417]
May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
It's a little hard for me to understand the opposition to general revenue shar-
ing. Many, I think, seem to resent the fact that the program allows local officials
rather than Washington bureaucrats to decide how your tax dollars are going to
be spent.
My opponent for the Republican nomination is confused about revenue shar-
ing. It was part of his $90 billion blooper. He has stated his opposition cate-
gorically to revenue sharing on the grounds it is simply another Federal pro-
gram piled on top of all of the others, a view which is totally contrary to the facts.
You know better.
And think, for a moment, what this program of returning tax funds to your
State and local communities has meant. In Indiana, as of 1 month ago, Federal
revenue sharing totaled $528 million-plus, and by the end of this calendar year
some $629 million will have been paid to the State, to the counties, to the cities,
and to the townships of the State of Indiana.
What will happen—and this is the question we all have to ask—what will
happen if the critics of revenue sharing have their way? Here in Franklin
County it could mean cutbacks in the county's highway, law enforcement, and
many mental health programs, among many others.
If the $16 million which Indianapolis is getting back in the current fiscal
year were eliminated, the city would have to curtail police and fire protection,
sanitation, public transportation, health and education, to name just a few.
Revenue sharing is working. Let's get the program extended and go on from
there.
Another program that is helping reduce government redtape is the commu-
nity development block grant program. At my direction, since the law was
enacted in 1974, Federal regulations for this program have been reduced from
2,600 pages to just 25 pages. Application forms have been reduced from 1,400
pages to only 50 pages, and the whole process between application and approval
has been reduced from 2 years to less than 2 months.
So, in conclusion, our goals are the same—to restore more responsibility to
local and State levels of government and to reduce the interference and the red-
tape of the Washington bureaucracy. We've made some very substantial prog-
ress towards those goals in the last 21 months, and we can make a lot more in
the next 4 years.
So, now, let's get to your questions. Thank you very much.
1422
