April 10
[325]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
FEDERAL SPENDING
[11.] Q. Mr. President, a House committee report released last week indi-
cated that the administration underestimated the proposed budget by nearly
$8 billion. Would you comment on this, and also tell us in light of election year
pressures, how hard you will fight and how far you will go to hold down Federal
spending?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, that is a matter of judgment. The several budget com-
mittees made their own calculations as to what expenditures ought to be. I
strongly disagree with the increased expenditures that those budget committees
are proposing. The $394.4 billion spending recommendation that I proposed, I
believe today is the right one. And I regret that the Congress has recommended,
or the two committees in the Congress have recommended, additional spend-
ing. I don't think it is necessary.
As I have said many times in the last 19 months, I have vetoed 47 bills, and
39 of those have been sustained. And we have saved the taxpayers $13 billion.
If the Congress sends down in the coming months additional bills for overspend-
ing, I will continue to veto them again, again, and again. I think the Congress
is wrong. We don't need that extra spending.
BLACK VOTE
[12.] Q. Mr. President, in view of your answer a few minutes ago about the
black vote and whether you would try and achieve this or not, and in view of
the fact that many political candidates who have either ignored the possibility
of blacks actually putting them in office or not, is it correct to assume that you
either don't care about the black vote or that you feel that the black vote will have
no weight during this Presidential election?
THE PRESIDENT. I would like as many supporters in the black community as
possible. I have always had it in my own congressional races. I have always be-
lieved that the black community should play a meaningful part in elections.
And I intend to do what I can in presenting the broad programs that I have rec-
ommended, and I believe they will help and assist all minorities.
But to go out and offer a particular piece of legislation for any segment of our
society in order to get them to vote for me, I think is the wrong approach for
a Presidential candidate. I want help and assistance from the black community,
but I don't intend to sacrifice my overall approach, which I think is in the best
interest of the United States.
1071
