[580]
June 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
administration will judge whether we are going well or badly. Everybody who
wants a job has to have a job under this administration. But let's talk for just
a minute about how we did this.
In January of 1975 I recommended to the Congress that if we were going to
beat inflation and provide the kind of economic opportunity for people who
needed jobs, we had to put a lid on the growth of Federal spending. We had
to also give some tax relief in order that people—the working people, the farmer,
the academician, the professional man, anybody-could have more money in
their pockets so they could spend it, so they could provide the kind of incentive
for people to modernize their plants, to expand their facilities.
We gave 75 percent of a $23 billion tax cut to the people of this country, the
individual taxpayers. The other 25 percent we gave to the business community.
Business has to expand. Business has to have an incentive to modernize. And the
net result is we started to turn this economy around.
Then last January of this year, I decided that the rate of growth of Federal
spending needed another cutback, and I recommended that instead of a $54
billion growth figure in Federal spending we ought to cut it in half, And I
recommended to the Congress that they put a lid on it, and I also recommended
that we have another tax reduction on July 1 of this year.
And what kind of a tax reduction did I propose—and this is the thing that in
my judgment will really keep us moving to give jobs and to whip inflation-
it seems to me that as I looked over the Internal Revenue Code for the last 20
years the middle-income people in this country had gotten shortchanged. So
far as personal income taxes are concerned, I said, “House and Senate, Congress
of the United States, you better increase the personal exemption from $750 per
taxpayer to $1,000." They haven't done it yet, so you better get after them because
that is what we ought to do to keep this economy moving and to get equity and
fairness in our Internal Revenue Code.
But there is another area of taxation that I think all equity and fairness de-
mands that we do in the Federal Government. We haven't treated the family
farmer, the small businessman appropriately. Do you realize that in 1942 they
set the estate tax exemption-it has not been changed since 1942, since $60,000.
In the meantime, family farms have had to be sold, small businesses have had
to be sold as it went from one generation to another. Those kind of operations
are the strength and the core of this great country of ours.
So, I proposed to the Congress that they go from $60,000 to $150,000, and they
make it so that when a piece of property-whether it is a family farm or a family
1850
