[375]
April 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
wonderful memories of my experiences back in my hometown of Grand Rapids,
Michigan, which is roughly the size of Shreveport, about 190,000, 200,000.
I have to let you in on a little secret. I was a Navy man, but they used to invite
me to the National Guard, they used to invite me to their annual dances or their
festivities such as you're having here. And I learned firsthand, as I am sure Joe
and John have learned, that this country depends very significantly on the con-
tributions that the National Guard has made and is making and will make to
our national security.
I know from talking to many of my older friends around home that the Na-
tional Guard moved in World War I and did the job that was required, the job
that was needed. I know that the National Guard from home went down to
New Guinea and fought there early in the war and did a superb job.
I know the National Guard moved in and took care of the situation, in many
respects, at the time of Korea, the National Guard has always been ready to do
its duty, in peacetime or in wartime.
And I also know that the people who one normally meets in the National
Guard are the kind of fine citizens, whether they are professional people, whether
they are labor or management, whether they are in one part of our society or
another, they are leaders and this is what has made the Guard and all of its
organizations around the country so important in our society.
This country is counting on you. This country is dependent on you. I see a
few infiltrators like myself-a navy man-here tonight. [Laughter] But you
know we are all part of a family and a family sticks together and does the job
and that is what we, in America, really are-215 million Americans who have a
devotion to our precious freedom, a dedication to our free enterprise system, a
love for the kind of government that we have that has given so much to so many
over a period of 200 years.
In the first century of our Nation's history, our forefathers built a kind of gov-
ernment that by any standard is the finest in the history of mankind. In the
second century of our Nation's history, we developed the greatest industrial
capacity of all time.
Now we're moving into our third century. We've got the government that
can and will do the job. We have got the capacity to provide the material well-
being for all of us, but now, in the third century, I like to think of this next
hundred years as a time when we can really give to individuals the kind of
liberty, the kind of opportunity.
We have had too much mass government, too much mass business, mass labor,
mass industry, mass education. The next century, this one that is on our doorstep
1246
