June 22
[610]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
just the past 10 years, the Congress has cut some $50 billion from the defense
budget recommended by three different Presidents, often to make room for new
social programs of questionable merit.
This year I am pleased to report to you we are finally reversing that trend,
and for the first time in a long, long while, the Congress seems ready to agree
with the President for a needed increase in the expenditures and programs for
the Defense Establishment. However, once again, I ask the support of the Jaycees
on a critical issue. This country simply cannot afford anything less than the
very best for the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, and the Marines.
America covets no one else's land. We seek no one else's treasures. Indeed,
we have given generously of our own when others needed help. But we must
also never shirk from the responsibility of protecting our interests and our own
security. If the promise of individual freedom is to be achieved in the coming
century, it will take a fullhearted effort by all Americans. I know that as Jaycees,
you are devoted to humanity as the best work of life. You are neither weak nor
timid in your devotion to America. You believe that citizens must be actively
involved in the affairs of the state and of the Nation.
We have an historic opportunity in America today. We stand at the threshold
of our third century. We can either let this time slip by with no clear vision of
what we wish to achieve as a people, or we can seize this moment by resolving
to fulfill the great promise of America to achieve full individual freedom for
all Americans.
A year ago there was a special ceremony in the city of Boston at Old North
Church. You may recall, that was the church where two lanterns were hung
on the night of Paul Revere's famous ride. Last April they hung a third lantern
in the Old North Church, and as they did, the rector spoke briefly about it:
"The two lanterns which were shown from this steeple," he said, “led us to
two centuries of some progress in reason, liberty, and in faith—but not enough;
to some fulfillment in mind, body, and spirit—but not enough; to some gains
in thinking, acting, and trusting in freedom—but not enough.
"Now the steeple of the Old North Church will shine with a third lantern
tonight, a new signal that will call us to renewed effort and renewed hope in
our third century. It will say we will yet make the American promise a reality;
we will yet make it the truth everyday, everywhere, for everyone. We will go
forward and we will stumble, but we will try again and again and again.”
My fellow Jaycees, in this Bicentennial Year let us carry that message to every
community across this land. Let us, through our own actions, become a beacon
1903
