[392]
April 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
I think we have to recognize that there is a great benefit of diversity in this
country. Diversity is one of our strengths in America.
There's an old saying, you know, that the beauty of Joseph's coat is its many
colors, and that may be the strength of America.
WHITE HOUSE STAFF
[9.] Q. Mr. President, I was wondering if you have done anything to ensure
that the men on your White House staff cannot supersede the power of Halde-
man or Ehrlichman,' and is your White House staff larger or smaller than that
of President Nixon's?
THE PRESIDENT. To answer the last question first, when I became President,
as I recall the figures, there were roughly 540 employees on what we call the
White House staff. That staff is now 485, so it is less than what it was under my
predecessor's guidance.
Number two, my staff is first selected by me. So I know them, I know the
kind of people they are, and secondly, there is no one boss. I exercise that power.
And I have an excellent staff where there is a contribution by many, and so
no one person is going to have the kind of authority that I think contributed to
the problem that existed and which ended in August 1974. So, I think we have
the kind of people, we have the kind of an organization, and we have fewer
of them, so we are in a lot better shape.
REASONS FOR SUPPORTING PRESIDENT FORD
[10.] Q. Mr. President, we appreciate your taking the time to be with us
this afternoon. And as the concluding question, I would like to ask about what
you think makes you a better candidate for students to support?
The President. Well, I think students such as yourselves ought to take a look
at the candidates and see which one has a proven record. And if you approve
of that record—and I hope you will-I think students as well as other Ameri-
cans ought to exercise their sacred privilege by voting for that person who has
a record, who has experience, who has achievement, and when I look—and I
try to be objective, certainly the facts and figures justify it-we have done a first-
class job in trying to achieve a successful, prosperous, and healthy economy.
Nobody can doubt that, and that ought to be important to students.
It is a proven record, and when you look at the fact that we took the respon-
sibilities or the reins of Government in August of 1974 when the world was
¹H. R. Haldeman, Assistant to the President, and John D. Ehrlichman, Assistant to the President for
Domestic Affairs, during the Nixon administration.
1334
