April 23
[354]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
comes up with an alleged problem, that they want to create a separate bureauc-
racy—the so-called consumer protection agency. They want, through legislation,
to have a separate bureaucracy that can go around and interfere with the day-
to-day operations of the various agencies and commissions of the Federal
Government.
I don't think we have to do that, and I have said that I would veto that legisla-
tion. I think it is totally unnecessary. It would be another bureaucracy that
wouldn't serve a useful purpose. I think we can handle the legitimate claims of
consumers without establishing another bureaucracy, so I'm opposed to it. And
if we can continue that kind of attitude, I think the future in the next 10 years
will be brighter as far as the Federal Government is concerned.
POSSIBILITY OF RONALD REAGAN AS PRESIDENT'S RUNNING MATE
[6.] Q. Mr. President, I'm Burt Sherwood, WMEE, WMAF, Fort Wayne,
and from your hometown of WCUZ, Grand Rapids. One very quick question.
How do you feel about the possibility of the tieup with Ronald Reagan?
THE PRESIDENT. A tieup with, as a Vice—————
Q. As a Vice-Presidential candidate, right. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I have said that after getting nominated, I would be
certainly looking at him along with about 10 or 15 others as potential running
mates. He certainly has qualifications that would include him as among 10 or
15 other Republicans from the Senate, the House, from Governors, from former
Governors. And the hot accusations that he has made without foundation in a
number of cases, I understand—that's part of the political rhetoric in a campaign.
So, I wouldn't use that; I wouldn't be prejudicial. I just know that when you grab
for issues, you sometimes go beyond the facts, and so I wouldn't prejudice his
possibilities by that kind of campaign rhetoric.
MIA'S AND U.S. POLICY TOWARD NORTH VIETNAM
[7.] Q. Mr. President, I'm Chris Duffy from WTHR television here in In-
dianapolis. Last night in a broadcast interview, you seemed to put aside all
thoughts of any kind of negotiations with North Vietnam as almost a final state-
ment, except for those negotiations through the Congress for finding MIA's.
Sir, is that cut and dried as much as it seemed on the interview last night, or is
there more to it?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think you have to understand it was in reference to an
alleged commitment that we had made to recognize North Vietnam. Now, that
is totally without foundation. Let me give you the sequence of this.
1165
