[420]
May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. What African country has the strongest export potential as
far as the United States is concerned?
Q. As far as American exports are concerned.
The President. Of course, we have had, probably among the so-called black
African countries, our strongest trading has been with Liberia. But historically
I think that may be true, but there is a great, great potential for us in all of the
countries in southern Africa. And that, frankly, is one reason why we wanted
or why I as President wanted to make sure that the Soviet Union and Cuba
did not dominate Angola, because that is potentially a very rich country with all
its oil and other natural resources.
Frankly, that's one of the reasons I was terribly disappointed that the Congress
would not go along with a minimal expenditure of how we could have helped
the two parties that were contesting with the MPLA.
But, if we can keep the Soviet Union, primarily, or Cuba, to a major extent,
from dominating countries like Angola, we have a vast export potential in
Angola and in other southern African countries. I would not want to rate them
or rank them by one over another. But those countries have literally millions and
millions and millions of dollars of natural resources which they can sell to us.
And in return, we have an opportunity to develop export trade with them,
providing we do not let the Soviet Union or any of its satellites come in and
dominate like they have in the case of Angola.
Can we take two more?
GUARANTEED ANNUAL INCOME; FOOD STAMP PROGRAM
[9] Q. Mr. President, I am a sales representative with Strickland Paper
Company. I'd like to know, since Congress seems to be intent on making our
country a welfare state similar to Great Britain, what is your stand on a guar-
anteed annual income?
THE PRESIDENT. I have never believed that a guaranteed annual income was the
answer to any of our problems. But that doesn't mean, under any circumstances,
that I'm in agreement with our present welfare program. When you add up
all of the welfare programs we have, including food stamps, I think it's a mess,
and something has to be done about it.
May I give you an example of how we are trying to do something about it?
Last year I proposed to the Congress some legislative proposals to actually cut
down the kind of abuse that we've been getting in the food stamp program. This
is almost unbelievable. Back in 1971 the food stamp program started as a way
1456
