[362]
April 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I know Chappie very well, but I didn't get what you
asked about him.
Q. I was reading the Jet Magazine recently, and it mentioned his power to
push the button in case of emergency.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, let me say that Lieutenant General Chappie James is one
of the outstanding Air Force officers in this country. I was pleased to see that
down in Florida just a few days ago, I think, the State legislature passed a reso-
lution commending him. He had grown up on, I think, Pensacola Naval Air
Station as the son of a marine officer, a naval officer, and he is the first black licu-
tenant general in the history of the United States. He is a great man and he
earned it by his combat capability, his leadership qualification, and I was pleased
to assign him to the highest ranking assignment in the history of any black officer
in any of our military services. He was the head of the Military Air Command
down in Rantoul, Illinois, I think it is. Chappie James has had a tremendous
record and he is not through. He certainly is eligible for greater honors and
greater promotions.
PRIMARY ELECTIONS
[6.] Q. Mr. President, I would just like to know what are remaining pri-
maries which you are most concerned about and why? [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I am concerned about them all. [Laughter We started
being concerned about them in New Hampshire, and we have not stopped being
concerned. The next one that comes up, of course, is Texas. I have had my son,
Jack, down there and I have been there once. Betty has just been down there 4
days with her CB set, or whatever it is. [Laughter ] I talked to her last night and
she said she had talked to 25 or 50 truck drivers and she said, "Dear, I got the
truck drivers' vote for you in Texas." [Laughter]
Well, Texas is an important primary, and we take them one at a time. Three
or four days later, on May 4, we have Indiana, Georgia, and Alabama. Those, all
three, are very important, and I get more optimistic every day.
ENERGY RESOURCES
[7.] Q. Mr. President, I would like to know what will be the position
of our country in years when I become an adult in having enough energy
resources?
THE PRESIDENT. That is a very important question and I appreciate your
asking it because we all know that when the Arab oil embargo took place in
1973 at the time of the Yom Kippur war in the Middle East between Israel
and Syria and Israel and Egypt we had an oil embargo. At that time the United
1200
