April 30
[401]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
THE PRESIDENT. Let me put it in my own terms. I am opposed to the registra-
tion of a gunowner. I am opposed to the registration of firearms, period.
B-1 BOMBER
[7.] Q. Mr. President, one last question, please. This is about the B-1
bomber—the B−1. It is being tested and flown, and if Congress brings it before
you to go ahead and build them—and I believe a rough estimate, sir, is about
$3.5 billion per each and something like 200-plus of those B-1's-will you veto
or will you go through with it?
THE PRESIDENT. We are in the final testing stage right now of the B-1 bomber.
In fact, the Secretary of Defense, Don Rumsfeld, who is an ex-Navy pilot, went
out and flew it.
But we are in the process, at this moment, of making the final determination
as to whether or not to go into production and to buy 254 of them. In fact, I
recommended in the fiscal year 1977 budget $1,500 million for the procurement
of the first B-1 bomber.
Everything that has been tested so far indicates to us that the B-1 bomber
will pass the test and will qualify as a new version or an add-on to the B-52's,
which are now flying 10, 15, or 20 years.
So, we have to have a new high performance, strategic aircraft, and the B-1
is the aircraft, if it passes the tests—and I am confident it will.
But let me, since you brought up the subject of defense, I think it is important
to talk about facts and figures, and I think I have quoted the accurate facts. It
is indicative that I know something about the details.
Well, a few months ago when my opponent came to Washington, D.C., to
announce his candidacy, some of you here in Texas may not have had the benefit
of listening to the press conference. This is right on the point of how much you
know or how much you don't know about the facts.
A reporter at that press conference on November 20 asked my opponent how
much he would recommend for a defense budget for the United States—and let
me read the answer verbatim because it shed a great deal of light on this
campaign.
He said, and I quote precisely, "I didn't say what I wanted to spend. You
have put me in a position in which the answer is very difficult because I think
only when you are in that position of command do you have access to all of the
information that is necessary for making that decision and, obviously, I am
not in that position and do not have that information at this moment."
Later on, another reporter asked him a somewhat similar question on defense
1371
