[385]
April 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
Q. Thank you, Mr. President. I guess all we have left is to say, Mr. President,
we are behind you-we are behind you today and Saturday and in November.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:23 p.m. at the Spring
Branch Coliseum. In his opening remarks, he referred
to Senator John G. Tower, chairman of the Texas
President Ford Committee, and Robert Mosbacher,
national finance chairman of the President Ford
Committee.
386
Remarks at a President Ford Committee Volunteers Reception
in Houston. April 29, 1976
GEE, it's wonderful to see all of you so bright and early this morning in
untypical Texas weather. [Laughter] But let me just give you a quick evaluation
of the wonderful day and a half or almost 2 days that we have had in Texas.
Of course, we started just across the border in Shreveport near east Texas and
moved from there to Longview and on further west.
But everyplace we have been we have had a warm, receptive, and, I think,
enthusiastic reception. Let's be honest and frank. All the polls and everything
else indicated we started as an underdog. But we are closing that gap, we are
going to give them a real tough go, and I think we can win.
And let me tell you why I think we have made such substantial progress.
Number one, in Senator John Tower we have got an outstanding leader, and
you should all be very proud of him as your senior United States Senator.
Secondly, the kind of people that all of you are and the time and effort and
the determination that you have had and, I said, whether it is in Longview or
Tyler or anyplace else, we not only have an awful lot of quantity like all of
you here but we have the best in quality in our volunteers. And thank you
very, very much.
Then I happen to think we have some pretty good policies, both at home and
abroad. So, when you call and talk from a phone bank or when you speak to
your neighbor or you talk to somebody at the supermarket or one of you in your
professions, whether it is the law or otherwise, you ought to have some affirma-
tive selling points. And let me give you those very quickly.
We are on the upswing, and we are moving more rapidly every day to a
prosperous and stable and healthy economy in the United States, and we can
take credit for it.
When we talk about jobs, we now have 86,700,000 people gainfully em-
1296
