April 10
[333]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
the Government running virtually every farm in America with acreage limita-
tions, price supports, et cetera. And the net result was we had vast surpluses of
wheat and corn, et cetera; and these vast surpluses were costing the Federal Gov-
ernment about $1 million a day in storage fees, and they were depressing the
market where farmers were trying to sell their commodities.
I think those programs were wrong. And about 3 years ago, we went to the
current farm programs where the net result is farmers produce for the open
market, where we have no surpluses, and where American agriculture has
shown that it can out-produce any other country in the history of mankind,
where we sell about $22 billion a year of American agriculture all over the world.
It has been the greatest insurance for us in the balance of trade to offset the im-
portation of foreign oil. This present farm program, which I think is a good one,
is going to expire next year. And next year, as President, I am going to recom-
mend the extension of this program for the next 4 or 5 years. I think it is sound.
I think it is good for agriculture. I think it is good for America, and I think it
is good for the world.
COMPETITION IN AMERICA
[7.] Q. Mr. President, you being an ex-football player and presumably a
BMOC [Big Man on Campus]—
THE PRESIDENT. You are giving me a big buildup. [Laughter]
Q. Well, that is all I know about you so far. [Laughter] What is your concept
of winning in America, your concept or your philosophy about America has to
come first in everything and win?
The President. I did compete in athletics at the University of Michigan.
I competed athletically as well as scholastically. I have competed all my life. I
think competition is good. It has to be fair. But competition stimulates
me, and
I think it stimulates the vast majority of Americans to do better.
And the net result is our country has advanced more rapidly and in the process
of advancing more rapidly, we have done more things for more people in this
country than any other country in the history of mankind—materialistically.
But we haven't lost our spiritual and moral and religious dedication, either.
So, competition, if it is within the rules, is good for each of us. And I think it
is good for our country to compete with other countries because in that process
we have advanced scientifically and technologically. We have, as a consequence,
improved our capability to produce in agriculture, in industry. This competition
has helped us retain our form of government which, by any standard, is the
1105
