[519]
May 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
10 or 11 percent per year. But we were able, through the work we did in prepa-
ration of that budget, to reduce that rate of growth from 10 to 11 to 5.5 percent,
and actually reduced, in total dollars, the growth by some $28 billion.
And I think that this is significant, because at the same time we were able to
turn around the trend that had been going on for another 10 years—the decline
in the percentage of expenditures for the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, and
Marines-and for the first time in about 10 years, the Defense Department, in
the budget I submitted, will be an upturn.
Yes, we have made some progress in the submission of the fiscal 77 budget,
but we still have some battles ahead and, as was mentioned by Pete, the Presi-
dential veto is an important weapon in the fight to hold down Federal spending.
The Congress knows that the President has that weapon. It's part of the Con-
stitution, and the Congress knows that the President has the will to use it, be-
cause I have used it 49 times to save the American taxpayer $13 billion.
Now, we are in the full surge of our economic recovery. Inflation has been
cut in half. In the first 4 months of this current calendar year, the rate of infla-
tion is at an annual average of 3 percent or under. Since the bottom of the re-
cession about a year ago, we have gained 3,300,000 jobs in America.
More Americans are employed today than ever before in the history of the
United States. We actually have 87,400,000 people on the job in the United
States. America's faith and America's confidence in our economic system has
been restored. We will maintain that confidence, and we will keep our economy
strong.
One way we will do that is by minimizing Federal interference in America's
commerce. I believe the Government can and should help individuals in busi-
ness when it's absolutely necessary. But by far, most of the time we should
stand back and let the American people get on with the job.
Just as we are laying the foundation for a bigger and better Navy, so we are
laying the foundation for a new prosperity in America's third century. That will
be a century for individual achievement and self-fulfillment.
In our next century, Americans will build on all the great accomplishments of
our first 200 years. But to do that, Americans must be secure in their homes and
on their streets, in their jobs, and in a peaceful world. It must be a century of
security for all Americans. That is the goal of all our efforts in defense, in
diplomacy, and economic stability. All our efforts in the last 2 years, both at
home and abroad, have been laying that foundation for a peaceful and a pros-
perous third century for the United States. There can be no better way to honor
our Bicentennial.
1696
