July 5
[649]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Thank you very kindly.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:06 p.m. on the
flight deck of the U.S.S. Forrestal, the host ship
of the International Naval Review in New York
Harbor. In his opening remarks, he referred to
J. William Middendorf II, Secretary of the Navy;
Emil Mosbacher, Jr., Operation Sail chairman and
Chief of Protocol for the State Department 1969-
72; Adm. Isaac C. Kidd, Jr., USN, Commander
in Chief of the Atlantic Fleet; Capt. Joseph J.
Barth, USN, U.S.S. Forrestal commanding officer;
and John W. Warner, Administrator of the Amer-
ican Revolution Bicentennial Administration.
Prior to his remarks, the President rang the
ship's bell 13 times-symbolizing the Thirteen
Original Colonies-which began the simultaneous
ringing of bells across America in commemoration
of the Bicentennial.
648
Letter to Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin of Israel on the Israeli
Rescue of Hostages in Uganda. July 4, 1976
Dear Mr. Prime Minister:
The American people join me in expressing our great satisfaction that the
passengers of the Air France flight seized earlier this week have been saved and
a senseless act of terrorism thwarted.
Sincerely,
GERALD R. FORD
NOTE: The Air France airbus was hijacked by
terrorists on June 28 after it left Athens on a
Paris-bound flight which originated in Israel. The
passengers and crew were held hostage in Uganda
until rescued by an Israeli commando unit on
July 3.
649
Remarks at Naturalization Ceremonies at Monticello, Virginia.
July 5, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Governor Godwin, Mr. Justice Powell, Senator
Byrd, Ambassador Nolting, reverend clergy, distinguished guests, ladies and
gentlemen:
It is a very great honor and a high privilege, Governor Godwin, to come to the
Commonwealth of Virginia and to this beautiful and significant home and to
participate in this wonderful ceremony. It is a great honor and privilege for
me to be here today.
I am very proud to welcome all of you as fellow citizens of the United States
of America. I invite you to join fully in the American adventure and to share our
common goal and our common glory.
1973
