April 23
[360]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Well, my firm, constructive, I think, steady policies that put the emphasis on
trying to get the private sector to meet the challenge rather than loading up the
Federal payroll, we have come out of this in good shape.
Where do we stand? Where do we stand? Well, instead of 12 to 14 percent
inflation, the rate of inflation for the first 4 months of 1976 was 2.9 percent. That
is great success, and we are going to keep working on it, and we will do even
better.
Last May, the unemployment was at almost 9 percent, but since last May, at
the depth of the recession, we have added 2,600,000 more people gainfully em-
ployed in this country. As of March, it was reported that we had 86,700,000
people gainfully employed in this country, the greatest number in the history of
the United States. So, we have met the challenge in the area of employment, and
we are going to do better and better, and we are going to continue to lower the
unemployment rate as we will with the kind of policies that we have.
We're on the road to the most sustained, best economic times that this country
has had. And I think this administration can claim a great deal of credit for it.
And what do we want to achieve as we move ahead? We want to achieve a
balanced budget. But you know how we're going to get it? We're going to cut
the rate of growth of Federal spending from 11 percent to 5½ or 5 percent.
And, at the same time, in order to stimulate the private sector of the economy
I hope the Congress will approve the additional $10 billion tax reduction that I
recommended this year. And I hope and trust that they will follow on with the
kind of a tax program that I will recommend the next year. And all of those
programs of holding the rate of growth of Federal spending and stimulating
the private sector will give us a balanced budget in 3 years and the healthiest,
vigorous economy.
And you know, another thing that I think we can talk about—and I think it
is dear to the hearts of the people here in Georgia—I firmly believe that we ought
to get the Federal Government, to the extent that we possibly can, off the backs
and out of the pockets of the people of this country. This administration believes
in one very basic truth, and let me state it: A government big enough to give you
everything you want is a government big enough to take from you everything
you have.
Now, let me add another feature of what I think is a good selling point in
Georgia, a good selling point in all 50 States. We want an even balance in labor-
management so that without government interference we can have those labor-
management problems solved with labor and management doing it without
government interference. That is why I vetoed the common situs picketing bill.
1189
