[415]
May 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. The question is, what is my view on the aid to the disabled,
including veterans.
I think you will find that in the budget that I submitted for the next fiscal
year, we increased the funds for aid to the disabled. In the case of the Veterans
Administration, I submitted to the Congress the largest budget in the history
of the Veterans Administration, including the biggest budget ever submitted
by a President for hospital care, which would include care for the disabled,
including research on how to help the disabled, in one way or another, so that
they can utilize what physical capabilities they have to a higher degree.
So, as far as money is concerned, it's more than it has ever been made available
in the past, and I hope and trust it will be productive in helping our disabled
Americans, including disabled veterans.
DEFENSE SPENDING
[7.] Q. I am from Fort Wayne, Indiana, and I would like to know if we
are going to start spending money on military facilities in case of an emergency?
THE PRESIDENT. The question is, are we going to spend money on the military
for instances of emergency, is that correct?
Well, I recommended a budget to the Congress in January of $114 billion.
That's the biggest defense budget in the history of the United States. Let me
take a minute to make a point that, I think, is one that should be made.
When I became President, in August of 1974, I found the following: I found
that the Congress, over a period of 9 years, had cut the military budgets by
over $45 billion. The net result of those congressionally imposed reductions,
if we didn't do something affirmatively about it, then we could be in trouble
in 2 years or 5 years.
So, in January of a year ago, I recommended at that time the largest military
budget in the history of the country. And, unfortunately, the Congress last
year did what they had done in the last 9 years. So, this year I recommended
$114 billion, about 25.5 percent of our total Federal expenditures. This year,
we have convinced the Congress that they should not reduce that budget. And
my new Secretary of Defense and myself can claim credit in convincing the
Congress that we need more money, not less money; and they darn well better
stop cutting the military budget.
Q. Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:08 p.m. at the Allen
County War Memorial Coliseum. In his opening
remarks, he referred to Lt. Gov. Robert D. Orr of
Indiana, F. Ross Adair, Ambasador to Ethiopia
1971 74. and Gerald D Heller, chairman of the
Fort Wayne President Ford Committe:
1416
