[415]
May 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
basketball players. [Laughter] I think it was an outstanding display of neigh-
borliness when the University of Michigan had the most defeats-3-0—and
Indiana became the top college basketball team in the Nation. We tried hard,
but congratulations.
This great area of the Middle West is oriented toward the business of agri-
culture in both the production of farm products and the manufacture of farm
equipment and supplies.
It is important that you know where I stand on farm policies that affect so
many of you. I want you to know what I am for and what I am against.
I am against policies that would have farmers producing grain for Govern-
ment storage bins and a Government check. I am strongly opposed to sub-
sidized imports from foreign lands. I don't want our American farmers com-
peting against the treasuries of foreign governments, and I don't want American
grain used as a pawn in international relations.
America is the greatest agricultural power in the world, and agriculture is an
all-important element in determining the shape of America's future. I want to
make sure that agriculture and the businesses dependent on it receive their full
share of America's increasing prosperity.
Let me tell you of a specific proposal that affects the family farm and affects
the small businessmen of this country. I have recommended to the Congress
that we increase the estate tax exemption from $60,000 to $150,000. I further-
more propose that we extend the time of payment of whatever the estate taxes
may be for a period of 25 years.
The aim and the objective of this proviso-this change in our Internal
Revenue Code-is to make sure, to make positive that we preserve the family
farm concept and that we preserve small business.
I think most of you know, from what I have said, how deeply I feel about
American agriculture. And let me say that the programs and policies that we
are implementing and that we are executing are in no small measure due to
our Secretary of Agriculture, Earl Butz.
I will be forever grateful to the State of Indiana for lending me one of your
native sons to help run the Department of Agriculture and all related agricultural
policies. I believe very strongly that Earl Butz is one of the finest Secretaries
of Agriculture our country has ever had.
Under the leadership of this administration and Secretary Butz, we have
made solid gains in agriculture. The last 3 years have registered the highest
net farm income in America's history.
American farmers have been relieved of heavy and costly burdens of Govern-
1408
