June 30
[625]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
the Prime Minister, or Mr. Ueki, we gave it to Roger Stevens.¹ And while I was
thanking the Prime Minister and the Japanese people, Roger Stevens dropped it.
[Laughter] Where is Roger? But nobody walked off with it, Roger.
Our relationship is remarkable for its ability not only to bridge the differences
between our cultures but to strengthen those differences.
Mr. Prime Minister, our ties are blessed with a very vital dimension—each
country's interest in and willingness to learn from the culture of the other.
Japan's construction of a new theater in the Kennedy Center emphasizes the
dynamic cultural interchange.
Last December, Mr. Prime Minister, you said it was your heartfelt hope that
the cherry trees would be for generations to come a symbol of the ever-growing
friendship, good will, and mutual confidence of the peoples of America and
Japan. I share that hope, as do all Americans.
Finally, Mr. Prime Minister, on behalf of my fellow Americans, I wish to
thank you and the people of Japan for the gracious message which you pre-
sented to me this morning extending your congratulations on our 200th birthday.
I know that in our third century, Mr. Prime Minister, Japan and America will
draw closer and closer together and that our two nations will continue to exert
a positive and constructive influence on the course of world events.
In a recent Bicentennial tribute, you said America became great and will con-
tinue to be great, not because we are made up of one race, one religion, or one
culture, but because a diversity of people came to our shores to forge a lasting
unity in a shared commitment to liberty, justice, and equity and equality. “The
American experience," you said, “reinforces my faith in democracy." For that
expression of faith, we are deeply grateful, and by your visit here we are deeply
honored.
Ladies and gentlemen, I ask that you rise and join with me in a toast to the
Prime Minister of Japan and to the warm and enduring friendship between
Japan and the United States.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:53 p.m. in the
State Dining Room at the White House. Prime
Minister Miki responded as follows:
Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, you do
me a great honor with this festive luncheon.
In just 4 days you will observe your 200th
birthday as a nation. This is a cause for celebration
throughout the world.
In Japan we are reminding ourselves how much
our friendship with America has meant to us.
The United States has played a significant role
throughout Japan's modern history, especially in
the past three decades. In those years we have
forged the broadest of friendly partnerships. To-
day we are the two largest industrial democracies
on Earth, walking side by side toward a better
world, free of war and want.
Japan's history would be very different if the
United States had never declared its independence;
so would the history of the rest of the world. That
1 Mitsunori Ueki, Japanese Minister of State, and Roger L. Stevens, chairman of the board of trustees
of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts.
1931
