May 23
[506]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
vidual regains and enlarges his personal freedom. Men and women must pre-
vail over the endless agencies and organizations that would reduce human
beings to computerized abstractions and program people into numbers and into
statistics.
I place a very high premium on creativity, originality, and your right to differ-
entiate yourself from the mass. Today's mounting danger is from mass govern-
ment, mass education, mass technology. I am determined to prevent conformist
pressures from smothering individual expression or stifling individual oppor-
tunity. Individualism must stand as the sentinel of 1976 against the monolithic
threat of sameness in our society.
Never forget that in America our sovereign is the citizen. The government
and institutions exist to serve the people. The state is a servant of the individual
in that it must never become an anonymous monstrosity that masters every-
one and is responsive to no one. These propositions are the foundations of our
Bicentennial.
My vision of America's third century is one of an era of achievement rather
than apathy, of fostering the ennobling and transcendental qualities of the in-
dividual spirit rather than building huge, new bureaucracies.
Two centuries of sacrifice and struggle, of conflict and compromise, have
won an unprecedented measure of political and economic independence for
each of us. I am proud to be the President of a free government that can check
and balance its own excesses. I am proud of our free economic system, which
corrects its own errors, controlled by the marketplace of free and enlightened
consumers. I am especially proud of the role of free education in preserving
individuality.
Today, I challenge educators, students, and graduates to regain the commit-
ment that made America great. Each generation brings a new spirit of compe-
tition, new reservoirs of enthusiasm, new responsiveness to the humanitarian
needs of others, and regenerated pride in personal independence.
Your generation bears a very special task-the preservation of individualism—
but you do not bear that task alone. You bear it with your families, your com-
munities, your schools, and your churches. Americans have the highest living
standard ever obtained by a nation of this size, but if our material strength is
to have any meaning whatsoever, we must seek moral and spiritual growth.
Each generation faces new difficulties and new challenges. Surely, we have no
less need of an abiding faith than did the Oregon pioneers who established a
new life in the American wilderness. We have no less need of faith than the
American colonists when they flung their challenge of independence in the face
1657
