1443]
May S
Public Papers of the Presidents
down. Unemployment was going up. We got some news yesterday that showed
that we have completely reversed that situation.
Yesterday, the Department of Labor announced, the Bureau of Labor Sta-
tistics, that employment in the month of April, just 1 month, had gone up 700,-
000, and that if you go back to the last 12 months, and go from May or April to
April, we had gained 3,300,000 jobs in the United States, and that's not a bad
batting average either.
And the net result is that as of last month, $4,700,000 people were gainfully
employed. That's an alltime record in the history of the United States. I am
sorry-86,700,000. But it shows the progress. It shows that we have been doing
the right things, and the net result is our economy is on a very good track. And
if I have the opportunity to be the President for the next 4 years, we will con-
tinue those policies, and that progress will likewise continue in the future.
Now, let's talk about peace. I'm going to say at the University of Nebraska,
when I have the privilege of speaking there this morning, that this is the first
graduating class in a long, long time back since 1941-that hasn't had to
expect the draft or selective service; that we have been able to man our Army,
Navy, Air Force, and Marines by voluntary action on the part of those who
want to enlist.
So, this is progress. We are able to do the job, to maintain the peace without
depending upon selective service or the draft. In other words, we have a capa-
bility through strength to convince our allies that we are strong and to convince
our adversaries that they shouldn't tinker with us. So, under any standard that
you say, we have sufficient military capability to carry out our missions. Our
allies know it, and our adversaries know it.
And then I think you can say that since the tragedy of the period just before
I became President, where there had been a great loss of confidence by many of
our fellow Americans, we have had an open administration, a candid ad-
ministration, a frank administration. And the net result is there has been a resto-
ration of confidence and trust in the White House. And I can assure you that in
the next 4 years, this policy of openness, frankness, integrity, will absolutely
continue, as it must under our kind of government, and as it will under a Ford
administration.
And one further comment. Ever since becoming President, we have never
promised more than we could perform, and we will perform on everything we
promise. And that's the kind of relationship that I think a President must have
with the people of this country, and that's the way it will be because that's
the way it will have been.
1504
