[383]
April 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
is a law and in order to get relief this law must be repealed or amended. The
lumber industry favors a bill introduced by, of all people, Senator Hubert Hum-
phrey, known as the Humphrey-Johnson bill, without the Randolph amend-
ment. At this time, several prominent leaders in the industry are now in Wash-
ington working for the passage of this legislation.
Mr. President, my question is-[laughter-please outline your position on
this complex problem and, secondly, if such a bill is not passed, what is your
position on laying down forest service policy pursuant to the authority given
to the executive branch via the 1974 Renewable Resources Planning Act?
THE PRESIDENT. I am very familiar with the Monongahela decision and the
subsequent decision by a court in Alaska. I know the very adverse impact of
that decision on the lumber industry, on the communities that depend—they
get 25 percent of all of the revenue that comes from forestland in the counties
in which those forestlands exist.
So, in those areas counties are losing a very substantial amount of revenue,
plus the added cost to the building industry.
The Secretary of Agriculture, with my full backing and authority, is work-
ing with a Senate committee, with Senator Humphrey and others, to try and
get that committee to come out with legislation that would be the necessary
amendment to the Organic Act of 1897.
I know there is a conflict in that committee between the Humphrey bill and
the Randolph bill. The Randolph bill would limit clearcutting to 25 acres or
less and the Humphrey bill would put the authority at the discretion of the
Secretary of Agriculture and the Forest Service.
I think we favor the Humphrey approach, with some modifications, not sig-
nificant. I hope we can get some progress on that bill through the committee,
through the Senate, and hopefully through the House. We're working also
with the House Committee on Agriculture on the same problem.
I can tell you that we want some action because we should not be hamstrung
by a law passed in 1897 that had a totally different situation to deal with. We
should have an updating of that legislation so we can protect our forests on the
one hand and provide the necessary timber on the other.
WAGE RATES
[3.] Q. Mr. President, my question is that the Wharton School of Business at
the University of Pennsylvania has estimated the total cost of the administration
alone of the Davis-Bacon Act, not including inflated construction costs, to be
1278
