April 29
[389]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
First, let me thank you very deeply for the opportunity to participate in this
memorial ceremony, and I thank you from the bottom of my heart for the
replica, which will be appropriately displayed and greatly appreciated in the
White House. I thank you very, very much.
It is obviously a great pleasure to be in Conroe, Texas, the third fastest-grow-
ing county in the United States-Montgomery County, I gather I have a friend
or two here in Conroe and Montgomery County. Thank you very, very much.
The purpose of my visit can be summed up in a very few words. As much as
I believe in a strong and prosperous American automobile industry, I am here
to say that this year there is absolutely no reason to trade in your Ford for a new
model. [Laughter]
The year 1976 is a very important, very critical year for this great country.
It marks the turning point for our country as we enter the last quarter of the
20th century and begin the third century of America's independence.
It is good for us sometimes to take stock where we have been, where we are
now, and where we are going as a people and as a nation. America has come a
long, long way in the last 200 years. We have grown from a very small, poor,
weak, and struggling collection of colonies to the greatest nation in the history
of the world—the United States of America-and we are very proud of it.
We have come through wars, depressions, droughts, riots, assassinations,
scandals, practically everything that fate can throw at America, but we have
also enjoyed phenomenal economical, technological, and social progress in
America. And that progress has made our way of life the envy of all peoples all
over the world.
Despite all the problems we have had, I don't think any one of us would trade
places with the people of any other country in the world today.
We hear some talk these days about America being in a state of decline. We
hear that America's best days are behind us. We hear that America is only a
second-rate power in the world today. Frankly, I am tired of hearing those who
would run down America.
I am proud of America, and I am proud to be an American. I know that each
and every one of you feel exactly the same way. I believe in this country. I
believe in its values, its traditions, its institutions, its people. I believe deeply in
America's future.
We have the capacity in this country to do just about anything we set our
minds to. America today remains the best hope of peace, the strongest guardian
of freedom in the world, in the globe, and we are pursuing a policy of peace
through strength, and we are going to keep it that way.
1317
