May 3
[417]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Now, I do recognize the problem of business trying to get the necessary
capital to expand their facilities, to update their equipment. We have tried to
do the following to help in that regard. We have been steadily trying to keep
pressure on so that the Federal deficit gets less and less and if the Congress
follows my budget recommendations this year and for the next 2 years, we will
have a balanced budget in fiscal year 1979. And that means that there will be no
additional Federal spending or borrowing, I should say, in the capital markets
of this country, which makes it easier for private industry to go to the capital
markets. They won't be crowded out, as they have been in the past on some
occasions, by the Federal Government.
And in addition, tax policy has an inpact on capital formation. I have recom-
mended, a year ago, a very substantial reduction in Federal taxes-$28 billion
in a 12-month period, 75 percent of it to go to individuals with an increase in
the personal exemption from $750 to $1,000 and to give to business more rapid
amortization, to give business other tax incentives so that they can more easily
establish their financial credibility and more easily borrow to expand their
facilities.
Q. Mr. President, I'm Dr. Dwight Schuster, member of the Board of Public
Safety in Indianapolis. I'd like to ask in regard to the vital area of law enforce-
ment and fire protection, and in important areas as the funding of the police
and fire pensions, what are your thoughts about this area and particularly with
the use of revenue funding?
The President. Well, the money that is given to Indianapolis or Fort Wayne
is literally without strain, some very broad guidelines, but nothing that really
ties the local units of government down to any specific program. I assume that
the judgment of the local officials will be to properly allocate them. And if they
need that money to hire more policemen or more firemen or to buy more equip-
ment, that's possible.
The pension, the matter between local government and the beneficiaries, is
a contractual arrangement. And how that is financed is a local determination.
It is not something that is dictated one way or another by general revenue shar-
ing. That money goes to Indianapolis. Indianapolis has the right to allocate its
resources, including that money, as it sees fit, and the financial or contractual re-
lationship between the city and any pension fund is a matter between those
parties, not the Federal Government.
Q. Mr. President, I am an executive in the philanthropic and volunteer as-
sociation field. Since revenue sharing has a kind of parallel in respect to the
way in which the government deals with the whole volunteer area of our life,
1425
