[444]
May 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
birth. The biographer and poet, Carl Sandburg, went to the fields of Gettysburg
to reflect for a few moments about the Nation that he loved. He spoke about the
history of America and the spirit of America. The will and vision that moti-
vated people in Plymouth seeking freedom of conscience, this moved on and
was written on the faces at Valley Forge. It was on the faces of men who
marched from home to the campaign that brought them to Gettysburg. “Long
before this time of ours," he said, “America saw the faces of men and women
torn and shaken in turmoil and chaos and storm. Always the path of American
destiny has been to the unknown. And always there arose enough reserves of
strength, balances of sanity, portions of wisdom, to carry the Nation through
to a fresh start with an ever-renewing vitality."
Today, you begin your own journey into the unknown. You carry with you
our best wishes and fondest hopes. You carry the wisdom of one of our finest
universities, and you carry, too, a great heritage of Nebraska, of the Plains, and
of America.
Congratulations, and thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:55 a.m. at the
University of Nebraska Sports Center. In his open-
ing remarks, he referred to D. B. "Woody" Varner,
president, James Moyan, chairman of the board of
regents, and Adam C. Breckenridge, chancellor,
University of Nebraska.
Prior to his remarks, the President was presented
with an honorary doctor of laws degree by Chan-
cellor Breckenridge.
445
Remarks at the Nebraska Educational Secretaries Association
Convention in Lincoln. May 8, 1976
I DO want to thank Mrs. Kinley and all of you from the Nebraska Educational
Secretaries Association. It is real nice to have an opportunity to just say a very
few words. I heard you were having your convention here, and I thought it
would be nice to drop over and say hello. I know you are deeply concerned with
the problems of education. You deal with them on a day-to-day basis, and there-
fore you might be interested in some of the thoughts that I have about
education.
I have felt that basically the Federal Government was trying to require, try-
ing to push on education in our States much too much paperwork and that the
net result was there was much too much concern about filling out forms and not
enough opportunity for students to get the benefits of funds that were made
available by the Federal Government.
1510
