[355]
April 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
in revenue sharing. I have advocated a 534-year extension of revenue sharing
with more money to go in the general revenue sharing program each year.
We believe that in the State of Indiana, which includes the State as well as
the local units of government, have gotten around $550 million. And under
the program that I have recommended, and if the Congress approved it, it
would go up to something like $800, $850 million for the next 5ยน years.
So, I believe in the general revenue sharing program and I have actually
recommended the increase in funding for general revenue sharing. If we can
only get the Congress to do something instead of sitting on its hands, we would
have general revenue sharing on the statute books for another 534 years right
now.
Q. Mr. President, you said yesterday that with some help you would like
to balance the Federal budget within 3 years. How do you propose to do this?
THE PRESIDENT. We propose to balance the Federal budget by doing two
things: number one, cutting the rate in growth of Federal spending from 11
percent per year, as it has been for the last 10 years, to a 51 percent rate of
increase in growth, and, at the same time, we would stimulate the domestic
economy by giving additional tax cuts to taxpayers whether they are individuals
or businesses. That is the way to get more people in the United States to spend
more money of their own, to increase consumer expenditures, and to give more
money to business so they can expand and modernize and provide more jobs.
And in that way we can balance the Federal budget in 3 years and increase the
strength of our economy in America.
REPORTER. Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you all very much. It is good to see you.
NOTE: The exchange began at 9:03 a.m. at the Dress Regional Airport.
356
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session at a Public
Forum in Evansville, Indiana. April 23, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Governor Otis Bowen, Mayor Lloyd, Reverend
Heady, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
It is a great privilege and a high honor to have the opportunity to be here in
Evansville this morning. As you know, I am something of a sports fan. I know
what a great basketball team you have from the State of Indiana. I thought
1170
