[560]
June 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. It is not likely that there would be a Geneva conference this
year. I don't rule it out entirely, but it is not likely. We are, however I am
talking to the heads of government when I see them, as I did with Prime
Minister Rabin of Israel when he was here. We are talking with foreign secre-
taries. We think momentum has to keep going beyond the Sinai II agreement.
If we stop the momentum the pot begins to boil again, so we are trying to deal
bilaterally, urging other nations to get together to move forward. But the pros-
pect of a Geneva conference in 1976, I think, is somewhat remote.
MISS THOMAS. Does the Syrian intervention in Lebanon have your blessing?
THE PRESIDENT. We have objected to any foreign intervention in Lebanon.
We don't believe that military intervention is the right way to solve Lebanon's
political problems. About 8 weeks ago I sent Ambassador Dean Brown as my
special emissary to Lebanon, and he was very helpful in trying to bring some of
the parties together. And I think we made a significant contribution in seeking
a political settlement without any military intervention.
I repeat, the United States Government is opposed to any military interven-
tion in Lebanon. I think it could be destabilizing, even though thus far it has
been done with restraint.
MISS THOMAS. Are you doing anything about it?
THE PRESIDENT. We have let all parties know that we oppose any military
intervention.
PUBLIC CONFIDENCE IN THE ECONOMY
[9.] MR. HERMAN. Mr. President, in almost every campaign speech it seems
to me you say something about the economy which goes along the lines that
everything that should be going up is going up and everything that should be
coming down is coming down.
THE PRESIDENT. That is true, and it is getting better every week.
MR. HERMAN. Then that gives point to my question, which is that the CBS-
New York Times polls of voters have repeatedly shown a very strange phenom-
enon. Only about a third of the people that we have queried in various States
around the country expect their economic state to be better a year from now.
The rest think it is going to be the same, and a very large proportion—in some
places, more than half the people-think they are going to be worse off in a
year. What is going on?
The President. Well, if you look at other surveys, you find that consumer
confidence has been going up and up every month or whenever-
1800
