[350]
April 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
Herb, thank you for doing a fine job.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:34 p.m. in the
Rose Garden at the White House, on receiving a
belt buckle from Maurice Schwarz, previent of the
Big Brothers of America.
351
Exchange With Reporters on Arrival at Indianapolis,
Indiana. April 22, 1976
THANK YOU very much, Bill. Of course, I have been in Indianapolis on a
number of occasions and it is great to be back. I am especially grateful for the
opportunity to be here and to get this key from you as the Mayor of Indianapolis.
I thank you very much. Of course, it is a great privilege to be here with the
Governor, who is an old and very dear friend of mine. It is just nice to be in
Indiana.
We had a great experience a couple days ago. We had some of Indiana's out-
standing heroes when we had the Indiana basketball team down at the White
House. They certainly are nice young men, and they had a great record.
With that, I will be glad to answer any questions.
REPORTER. Mr. President, would you tell us, sir, give us a summary of the
condition of your campaign finances and why, in your judgment, we are unable
to continue with the Federal dollars for the Presidential campaign?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, let me answer the last question first. The reason there
is no continuation of the law that was passed in 1974, which would give to can-
didates for the Presidency in both parties Federal financing, in part is because
the Congress, since January 30, has done nothing to amend the unconstitutional
provisions in the law that the Supreme Court on January 30 said had to be
corrected.
On January 30 of this year, the Supreme Court said certain provisions were
unconstitutional. It is almost 3 months now and the Congress has not yet sent
to my desk for my signature a bill that would correct these deficiencies.
So, the blame for this problem is solely on the shoulders of the United States
Congress. They have been on two vacations, they have not done a thing in
passing a final version, and once the Congress moves then we can make a
decision.
Q. Would you respond to Congressman Udall's complaint that your finances
are in good shape so you are not going to be hurt by this delay, but that his
1146
