[373]
April 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
In other words, we're putting back in the lake what we got out of the lake. Is
there any room for improvement or help that the cities are going to get as far
as environmental protection is concerned?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the basic legislation that established the Environmental
Protection Agency does impose rather rigid and very high standards as far as
clean air and clean water is concerned.
Q. Yes, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. The law that was passed about 4 years ago also established
a water resource commission-I have forgotten the exact title-and mandated
that that commission come back with recommendations for the Congress and
the President at the time the present law expires. And as I recall, the present
law expires either this year or the middle of next year.
That commission has submitted its report, and in its report it recommends
that there be some modification of the standards, not so much a lowering of the
standards but an extension of the time span for cities and industrial plants to
meet the standards. So, you don't have to do it all tomorrow.
Now that report, which is a very sizable volume, is before the Congress and
before the White House. The chairman of that committee, appointed I presume
by my predecessor, was then the Governor of New York, now the Vice Presi-
dent, and the vice chairman of that commission is Senator Ed Muskie of Maine.
I am told that the recommendations of that commission were unanimous, ex-
cept for Senator Muskie, who thought we ought to stay with the present stand-
ards and the present timespan. I just present that because Senator Muskie is a
very influential person and we have got to get, I think, a lot of support to sup-
port the recommendation by this commission, which will alleviate some of the
problems you're talking about.
Q. Mr. President, we have time for one more question, please.
THE PRESIDENT. Fine.
IMPACT AID PROGRAM
[10] Q. Mr. President, here in north Louisiana we're just as concerned
about balancing the budget. But in our school system, through the Federal
programs, we've been cut back considerably and of course, our interests, like
your interests lies with the education of our young children. And we would like
to know what is the progress through the Federal Government to reestablishing
our funds?
THE PRESIDENT. I suspect you're talking about impact aid?
Q. Yes, sir.
1242
