[526]
May 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
Number three, because of our military capability, because of our diplomatic
skill, we can maintain the peace that we have achieved and give us the oppor-
tunity to strengthen the moral fibers and protect the freedom that all of us love
and cherish so much in this great country.
Thank you all very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:40 p.m. in the
Ridder Room at the Center for the Performing Arts.
As printed above, this items follows the text of
the White House press release
527
Remarks at a Luncheon in Honor of the Dedication of the San
Jose Foreign Trade Zone. May 25, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Halsey, Congressman Pete McCloskey, Congress-
man Al Bell, Congressman Mineta, Ev Younger, Mayor Hayes, Paul Mariani,
Ron James, and, of course, my old and very dear friend, Dave Packard, dis-
tinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
I have always enjoyed the company of Americans who are working to bring
more jobs and greater prosperity to our country, and that's why I am especially
pleased and very happy to be with you here in San Jose today.
One of my greatest responsibilities as President has been the task of revitaliz-
ing our economy. In meeting that challenge, I place full confidence in the abil-
ity of our free enterprise system, and you have shown that that kind of faith is
fully justified here in San Jose. On your own, with your own enterprise, your
own initiative, you have established an international business park that is ex-
pected to create millions and millions of dollars in new revenue for this area
and provide as many as 12,000 jobs in the forthcoming years.
The new Foreign Trade Zone within the park will also strengthen our par-
ticipation in the international market. And I wish you the very, very best of
luck with your international park, as well as your trade zone. I congratulate
wholeheartedly the members of the Chamber of Commerce on your new office
building, and thank you all for making my job a little bit easier.
Your economic future looks very bright in a city with all this talent and all
this energy. I see optimism actually spreading all over our country.
It was not always so, as you will find if you refresh your memories. Just
21 months ago America's prosperity and economic strength were seriously
threatened by a chilling combination of recession as well as inflation. Some of
America's leading economists and politicians thought it best, for example, to
impose wage and price controls to deal with the economic difficulties that we
1720
