[394]
April 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
States-we will keep, if Congress goes along, our unsurpassed capability mili-
tarily to meet the challenge, to deter aggression, to protect our security, and
maintain the peace. That's the kind of a defense capability we have and we're
going to keep.
Let me say, you have to judge a policy on the basis of whether it is successful
or not. We were looking over the records the other day--I am the first President
seeking election or reelection in the past 20 years who can go to the American
people and say our policies have been so successful, the United States is at peace—
confirm the policies that we have undertaken.
Isn't that the aim and objective-peace and the maintenance of our precious
freedom which we have today and we are going to keep tomorrow and every
day in the future?
Let me make a commitment to you. Since I became President, this has been
our firm commitment with the American people: I would never promise any-
thing that we can't deliver, and we will deliver everything that we promise.
I believe I have been the most effective President in challenging a Congress,
which is controlled 2 to 1 by the liberal element of the other political party. I
vetoed 48 bills, and 39 of them have been sustained. That's not a bad batting
average in any league and with the sustaining of those 39 bills, or those vetoes,
we have saved the taxpayers of this country $13 billion. That's action. That's
success.
Another criteria by which you can judge the qualification of a President, I
think, is whether he can act decisively and again act successfully. Just about a
year ago, you may recall the Mayaguez incident, where some international
bandits from Cambodia seized an American merchant vessel. This country,
after proper warning, after seeking to get diplomatic success—I decided that
the only way we could handle the matter was by affirmative, decisive, direct
action. And we got the Mayaguez back, period.'
And one final observation, if I might. As we look back for the first two cen-
turies of this great country, in the first 100 years of American history our fore-
fathers fought to get independence, and then they struggled hard to give us
the kind of a government which is unmatched anywhere in the history of man-
kind. Maybe it is not perfect, but if you compare it with any other kind of gov-
ernment that has ever existed, I think we are darn proud of it.
The second century of American history gave us, through our individual initia-
tive and through the free enterprise system, the opportunity to make America
the most dynamic industrial nation in the history of the world.
'See 1975 volume, Items 256, 257.
1338
