[417]
May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
I wonder if you would care to comment about your attitudes on the question
of whether the government should or should not continue to give incentives
for private giving and other incentives for volunteer associations? It seems to
me this is a very important part of the whole question of our sharing these
obligations.
THE PRESIDENT. All my life, including my political life, which includes 25
years in the Congress and about a year as Vice President, and 21 months as
President, I have strongly supported voluntary organizations that raise money
and try to solve local problems, whether it's the Red Cross, the United Way,
family services, a number of organizations that are so important to involve local
people both individually and financially to meet local problems.
Therefore, I strongly support the provisions in our Federal tax laws that pro-
vide an incentive for individuals to give to voluntary organizations so that vol-
untary organizations can continue to do the fine job that they have at the local
level. And I vigorously oppose those who propose that we do away with these
tax incentives for individual charitable giving, whether it's to your church, to
the Red Cross or to any one of the other local organizations.
Q. Mr. President, I am from Troop 240, local city, and this is kind of off the
subject, but we are making a Bicentennial trip to Washington, D.C. this sum-
mer and I wonder if there is any chance of talking to you-[laughter-
THE PRESIDENT. Let me say the chances are very good. [Laughter] But if you
will give one of my aides your name and the time you will be there, and if I am
in town, we will see that you get to the Rose Garden and I have the opportu-
nity of meeting you and all of your associates individually.
Q. Mr. President, I am Mayor Bob Campbell of Lebanon, Indiana, a town of
10,000. My question, Mr. President: Will the formula under the new law, will
it be revised so much as to affect the smaller cities and towns? In other words,
what I am asking, will the new formula be near the old formula?
THE PRESIDENT. When I submitted the proposed extension of the present law
for an additional period of 5 years and 9 months, we wrestled with the problem
of whether to try and tinker, so to speak, with the formula that was agreed upon
4 years ago between the Governors, the mayors, and the county officials.
It was my judgment-although there are, I think, some inequities in the
formula-that if that whole issue was reopened, it would be a substantial
roadblock in trying to get the legislation extended. So, with some reservations
on my part, it was my decision that, in order to facilitate getting the legislation
extended, we would not reopen this very controversial issue of how to divide
1426
