April 23
[356]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
and girls and boys, but I think there are some other areas where a little more com-
mon sense might be used.
FEDERAL FUNDING OF THE SPACE SHUTTLE; SOLAR ENERGY
[9.] Q. Mr. President, as you know, Americans in the last 5 years have be-
come very concerned about the availability of clean energy and my question is,
as you know, a lot of scientists are now claiming that we do have the technology
as an aftermath of the NASA Moon project to develop space stations in which
solar panels could be set up and, in turn, supply this Nation with a continued
supply of completely clean, free energy. And they came to the conclusion that
the key to the project would be massively expanded funding for the space shuttle.
What is your position on this?
The President. I recommended in January of 1975 and again in January of
1976 the full goal on the space shuttle. In 1975 there were a number of appli-
cants because of our economic situation that said we ought to cancel the space
shuttle. I said no, it was roughly a third finished at that time, I think it would be
unwise, uneconomic to cancel the space shuttle, so I recommended the funding
necessary to keep the program going.
I did the same for the next fiscal year, and I am glad to report, I think the first
vehicle is going to be made available for public display sometime late in August
or early September.
On the overall issue of utilization—or development and utilization of solar
energy, I have long been an advocate of that, and in the budget that I recom-
mended to the Congress for the next fiscal year, we have recommended a 37-
to 40-percent increase in research and development for solar energy. And this
money will be spent by the NASA people, the national aeronautics and space
program, by the Energy Research and Development Agency [Administration],
by the Dr. Guy Stevers group.
We are putting about $160 million in solar research for the next fiscal year,
which is about what the technical people who advise me think can be usefully
and responsibly spent. We're going to go on in it because it has a great potential,
and we are going to do all we can to achieve it, whether it is the space program
or otherwise.
THE "MAYAGUEZ" INCIDENT; CONCORDE FLIGHTS TO THE UNITED STATES
[10.] Q. Mr. President, first off I would like to congratulate you on your
handling of the Mayaguez incident. My question is, what is your stand on the
Concorde being allowed to land in the United States?
1
1179
