May 28
[542]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
modity controlled by other countries. Even without a price increase this year,
American consumers will pay $35 billion for imported oil as compared to $27
billion last year, and only $3 billion in 1970.
The responsibility to reverse this situation now rests with the United States
Congress. I regret that it has been unable to face up to the energy problem and
pass the program that I requested.
542
Statement on Signing the Medical Device Amendments of
1976. May 28, 1976
TODAY, I have the pleasure of signing into law S. 510, the Medical Device
Amendments of 1976 to the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act of 1938.
It is almost exactly 70 years since President Theodore Roosevelt signed the
Pure Food and Drugs Act of 1906, the Nation's first Federal food and drug legis-
lation designed to protect the American consumer against health threats arising
from harmful substances and deceptive practices. Since then, there have been a
number of actions to strengthen and update the structure of protection sought by
President Roosevelt.
While we as a nation were able to take justifiable pride in the laws providing
for safety, honesty, and efficacy in the foods and drugs we consume, it became
increasingly clear that there remained a large, significant, and growing gap
in that security. Until today, the American consumer could not be sure that a
medical device used by his physician, his hospital, or himself was as safe and
effective as it could or should be.
In 1906 President Roosevelt had no need to ask for legislation concerning
medical devices, for the devices used by physicians of this day were compara-
tively simple. They stood at the edge of medicine, helpful but not essential and,
therefore, posed no regulatory need.
By the 1960's, however, enormous advances in science and technology moved
medical devices from the edge close to the center of the stage. Today, devices
are routinely implanted in our bodies. They replace limbs, bones, tissues, even
entire organs. They permit treatment of forms of illness that can be accom-
plished in no other way. They magnify and speed 10 thousandfold the diag-
nostic power of the human eye and brain.
Medical and diagnostic devices have produced a therapeutic revolution, but
in doing so they have also become more complex and less easily understood
1765
