April 28
[383]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
agreed for the first time to remove controls on oil prices. Unfortunately, the
Congress insisted that full decontrol be carried out over a 40-month period.
I indicated last December that I would order immediate steps to remove
controls on petroleum products, and I also pledged that I would use all of the
flexibility in the legislation to allow the increases in crude oil prices that are
absolutely necessary to stimulate domestic oil production.
Now, we have already sent to the Congress a plan for decontrol of residual
oil, and this decontrol plan will go into effect June 1. Plans are also in the mill
for decontrol of distillates and gasoline. We are moving in the right direction
in this area,
both to provide the production incentives that we need and to
reduce the control of the Federal bureaucracy.
But my goal is, has been, and will continue to be the removal of all price
controls from oil and new natural gas as the best way to achieve energy in-
dependence in the United States of America.
Last week, I was delighted to read that the Texas Independent Producers
and Royalty Owners Association expressed its support for my efforts to achieve
energy independence. Naturally, I appreciated that support from one of the
largest petroleum associations in Texas, and let me assure you that I intend to
keep right on with these efforts for the next 4 years.
I know that some people didn't like the fact that I signed this energy bill.
But there were some others who didn't like the fact that I vetoed the common
situs picketing bill, either.
That veto was a crucial decision, but it was decisive action, just like the de-
cision to recapture the Mayaguez when international bandits seized an Ameri-
can merchant ship 11 months ago, and we recaptured it.
If we wait for legislation on anything that completely satisfies everybody,
this country is in for a long and dangerous period of inaction, and that's some-
thing we can't afford.
My administration, for the past 20 months, has pursued policies that reflect
the commonsense and the pragmatic realism which today's complex problems
demand—not the simplistic proposals that sound so good on the campaign
trail. My experience tells me that I must deal with the world as it is if we are
to make it the world that we want it to be. This is particularly true when it
comes to the life and death decisions concerning our national security. The
decisions made in this very vital area must be right ones. There are no retakes
in the Oval Office.
My record is clear. Since I have been President I have recommended to the
Congress the two largest military budgets in the Nation's history. They were
1275
