[603]
June 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
publican values that we have been talking about, voting for, and believing in for
a good many years.
I think this is very important and it is very encouraging as we enter our third
century of American history. This wave of moderation, this wave of common-
sense could well lay a sound foundation for the third century—a century that
all of you will have an opportunity to participate in and to be a part of.
1976 is a vitally important election year. It is the year that we can ride a wave
of great victory. Now, it makes no sense for us to scramble down to the wire for
the nomination and then have our party fall apart the next day. This has hap-
pened before—it happened 12 years ago, and I recall it vividly. That year we lost
39 members of the House of Representatives, we lost 2 Members of the Senate,
we lost some 600 State legislators. We took a bad beating. We have been strug-
gling in the Congress to recoup from that disaster; we have built up in 1968.
We made some progress over this span of time, but in 1974 we took another
disastrous defeat. So, what we have to do, as I look at it, is to build for the future.
Now, we have had a spirited contest for the Presidential nomination, but
all of us must work equally hard to prevent this 1976 Presidential contest in
the Republican Party-we must strive to prevent it from becoming a grudge
battle. Following Kansas City, I want a united, I want an enthusiastic Repub-
lican Party. I want a kind of Republican program and a Republican unity
that is essential if we are to be successful in November. It is important not
only for the party but for the country. It is important for the American people
in November that they be given a clear choice for the future direction of our
Nation. We can give them that choice if we are united as Republicans. I can
say that is my intention, and I feel sure that it is equally the intention of my
Republican opponent.
We can't have this a grudge fight if we are to achieve the success that is so
important not only for the party and the principles we believe in but for the
country as a whole. We must all work together at every level—at the local level,
at the State level, and at the Federal level. You can participate at the grassroots
level, and your contribution is invaluable as we move from here to Kansas
City to November when it is the final touchdown.
We face a great challenge. We have a great opportunity, and I am confident
that the combined forces of all elements of the Republican Party, old and young,
all within our Republican spectrum, can make a substantial contribution. And
I urge each and every one of you to carry that message back to your fellow
Republicans, back to your neighbors, back to your friends. That is the point
that we must emphasize in the weeks and months ahead.
1892
