[327]
April 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
rate ballistic missile capability, and that is very important. We have a much more
survivable missile capability in the United States and our strategic aircraft. The
B-52 is followed on by the B-1. We outnumber the Soviet Union by about 3-to
4-to-1. So, in the strategic capability, the United States is fully sufficient to
deter aggression, to maintain the peace, and to protect our national security.
It is true-and this is a good illustration-that the Soviet Union has over 4
million people under arms. The United States has 2.1 million. But it is inter-
esting to note that there isn't a soldier on the border between Brownsville and
San Diego. We have a friendly neighbor to the south. There isn't a soldier from
the west coast to the east coast on the Canadian-American border. We don't
need soldiers for those purposes.
The Soviet Union, on the other hand, has better than 1,000 miles of very con-
troversial border with the People's Republic of China. Half of their military
capability is guarding that border. On the west, they have the NATO nations.
They have the other half of their military force lined up against the United
States and our allies. That is why they need twice as many people. They don't
have friendly borders like we do. We can concentrate our military capability
in a much more restricted way.
Now, let me add this: This country is unsurpassed. This country is going to
stay strong. I recommended last year the largest military budget in the history
of the United States. Unfortunately, the Congress cut it by $7.5 billion.
In January of this year I submitted a much larger military budget, $112.4
billion, the largest budget for the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, the Marines in
the history of our country. And if the Congress is wise enough to carry out the
budget that I proposed, there is no fear, under any circumstances, as to the mili-
tary capability of the United States, period.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12 37 pm in the
theatre at the El Paso Civic Center In his
opening
remarks, he referred to George Jones, president of
the association, and Mayor Don Henderson of El
Paso
328
Remarks at a President Ford Committee Reception in
El Paso. April 10, 1976
THANK YOU very, very much John Tower. As John was speaking, I could see
very obviously that you are the tops in quality, the tops in quantity, and by gosh,
nobody beats you in energy. Congratulations.
1090
