[357]
April 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
4 years will continue to give us the kind of prosperity that we want and the kind
of peace that we need.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:20 am. in the Florida Room at the Executive Inn
358
Exchange With Reporters on Arrival at Dobbins Air Force
Base, Georgia.
April 23, 1976
GOOD AFTERNOON, ladies and gentlemen.
It is great to be in Atlanta. We had a wonderful day and a half in Indiana,
we are looking forward to an opportunity of being here in Georgia today.
So, with those observations I will be glad to answer any questions.
REPORTER. Welcome-welcome back.
THE PRESIDENT. My ninth time in recent years.
Q. Mr. President, recently in Texas you played the role of underdog and you
said even more recently should you lose Texas it could affect your chances in
neighboring States, one of those was Georgia, I believe. Do you feel like you
are the underdog in Georgia?
THE PRESIDENT. I suspect that we are at the present time but just as in Texas—
we started in Texas as an underdog, we are making very substantial headway. I
think we might surprise them in Texas. We are here in Georgia because we want
to expose our views and myself to the people of Georgia. And I think if we have
the kind of response here that we have had in Texas, we might surprise them
here in Georgia.
Q. Mr. President, do you think you will win in Georgia?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I am always hopeful, and we are going to try very hard.
Q. Mr. President, is there any possibility that you might ask Vice President
Rockefeller to run again with you?
THE PRESIDENT. I can only go by his statement to me 3 or 4 months ago when
he said he did not want to be considered for the Office of Vice President.
Q. There is a local political feud brewing here, President Ford, about your
visit-whether it is purely political or whether you are here as President. Some
of your Democratic opponents from DeKalb County, where you will speak to
night, will not attend that because they say you are coming as a candidate and
not as a President.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I very deeply regret their attitude. I think I might learn
1184
