May 5
[428]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
I am absolutely convinced what this Government is doing, what this Govern-
ment has done for the last 13 years, is the right policy. And we are going to
continue to negotiate rather than to accelerate the possibility of a military con-
flict. And so we're going to do what we believe is right, which I think is negotiate
in the Panama.
Q. Mr. President, do you agree with Rogers Morton that Governor Reagan
now has the advantage in the race between you?
THE PRESIDENT. No, because you have to look at the uncommitted, and you
have to take an honest appraisal of where some 300-plus of those uncommitted
delegates are more likely to go. So, we think it's going to be a tough race, but
we expect to win, and we will be at Kansas City to do so and to carry on from
there for a victory in November.
Thank you all very, very much.
NOTE: The exchange began at 12:40 p.m. in the Rose Garden at the White House.
428
Remarks Upon Signing the Federal-Aid Highway Act of
1976. May 5, 1976
Secretary Coleman, distinguished Members of the Congress, distinguished
guests:
I am signing today a bill, H.R. 8235, which authorizes more than $17½ bil-
lion dollars for the extension of the Federal aid to highways program. Many,
many thousands of jobs will be directly as well as indirectly supported by the
legislation, which will provide for key links in the Interstate Highway System,
upgrade existing highways, and develop public transit facilities.
Primary responsibility for selecting projects and administering this grant pro-
gram will continue to rest with State and local authorities. While this act does
not include everything that this administration proposed to the Congress, it
is an important step toward meeting America's transportation needs.
For that reason, Mr. Secretary and Members of the Congress, I am very
pleased to sign this legislation, which is a very significant piece of legislation
and a very important one as far as our economy and our transportation facilities
are concerned.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:03 p.m. at a cere-
mony in the Rose Garden at the White House. In
his opening remarks, he referred to Secretary of
Transportation William T. Coleman, Jr.
As enacted, H.R. 8235 is Public Law 94-280
(90 Stat. 425).
!
1471
