[383]
April 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
commerce by committing or threatening to commit acts of violence. In 1973,
however, the Supreme Court ruled that unions were exempt from coverage
when committing such crimes in pursuit of collective bargaining goals.
Since this ruling, the construction industry has been plagued with mob vio-
lence resulting in property damage, personal injury, and even murder. Local
and State authorities have, in many cases, been unable to cope with this
situation.
There is a proposed amendment to the Hobbs Act sponsored by Congress-
man Anderson and Senator Bartlett of Oklahoma, which would remove this
exemption. But it has been in committee for more than 3 years, Mr. President.
My question is, will your administration actively support the passage of this
legislation, and is there anything that the executive branch can do to expedite
this bill from the Judiciary Subcommittee?
THE PRESIDENT. First, let me put this administration clearly on record that
the Department of Justice of this administration will strongly implement any
legislation that calls for criminal action against those people who commit a
violent crime. There's no question about that. We have done it and will con-
tinue to do it.
We experienced in Michigan some serious problems up in the northern part
of our State about 3 or 4 years ago, as I recall. I am not personally familiar with
this particular legislation but, if it is a way to prohibit and to stop violence—
which I abhor—then I can tell you that basically this administration would be
sympathetic to it.
I naturally want to take a look at the precise language, and I know Congress-
man John Anderson and Senator Dewey Bartlett very well. We'll look into it,
but I have to be realistic with you and say this: that with the complexion of
this Congress, the prospects of action on such legislation are probably very, very
limited, and the best way to ensure some action to correct the conditions that
do exist will be to make some changes in the Congress in November of 1976.
Q. Good afternoon, Mr. President. I'm not much of a golfer, but if you and
First Mama want to come back in November we would sure be proud to take
you out for some tamales. [Laughter|
The President. Well, First Mama did better on that than I did. [Laughter|
FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION
[6.] Q. I understand you gave her some lessons though.
House and Senate conferees have approved legislation, Senate bill 3065 to
restructure the Federal Election Commission as mandated by the Supreme
1280
