[620]
June 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
carried forward to these meetings in Puerto Rico, has strengthened prospects
for progress by the industrialized democracies in a number of key areas. If we
nurture the sense of common purpose and of common vision which has charac-
terized these discussions, we have an opportunity to shape events and to better
meet the needs of our citizens and of all the world.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:02 p.m. at the
Dorado Beach Hotel, Dorado Beach, Puerto Rico.
Following his remarks, the heads of the delegations
of the other participating countries made final
statements.
As printed above, this item follows the text of the
White House press release.
621
Joint Declaration Following the International Summit
Conference in Puerto Rico. June 28, 1976
THE HEADS of state and government of Canada, France, the Federal Republic
of Germany, Italy, Japan, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland and the United States of America met at Dorado Beach, Puerto Rico,
on the 27th and 28th of June, 1976, and agreed to the following declaration:
The interdependence of our destinies makes it necessary for us to approach
common economic problems with a sense of common purpose and to work
toward mutually consistent economic strategies through better cooperation.
We consider it essential to take into account the interests of other nations.
And this is most particularly true with respect to the developing countries of
the world.
It was for these purposes that we held a broad and productive exchange of
views on a wide range of issues. This meeting provided a welcome opportunity
to improve our mutual understanding and to intensify our cooperation in a
number of areas. Those among us whose countries are members of the European
Economic Community intend to make their efforts within its framework.
At Rambouillet, economic recovery was established as a primary goal and
it was agreed that the desired stability depends upon the underlying economic
and financial conditions in each of our countries.
Significant progress has been achieved since Rambouillet. During the recession
there was widespread concern regarding the longer-run vitality of our economies.
These concerns have proved to be unwarranted. Renewed confidence in the
future has replaced doubts about the economic and financial outlook. Economic
recovery is well under way and in many of our countries there has been sub-
stantial progress in combating inflation and reducing unemployment. This has
1922
