July 4
[644]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
women stood the same sentry duty as the men. In the West, the Declaration's
promise of legal and political equality for women was first broadened.
The American pioneers knew that in their wilderness homes they could not
be colonials ruled by a distant government. They had assurance that in due
course they could govern themselves as full citizens of equal States. This political
guarantee made all the risks and all the sacrifices worthwhile. Their children
and future generations would have all the rights of Washington, Jackson, and
Lincoln. So do we, and more so.
As we continue our American adventure, the patriots of Valley Forge and
the pioneers of the American frontier—indeed, all our heroes and heroines of
war and peace—send us this single, urgent message: Though prosperity is a
good thing, though compassionate charity is a good thing, though institutional
reform is a good thing, a nation survives only so long as the spirit of sacrifice and
self-discipline is strong within its people.
Independence has to be defended as well as declared. Freedom is always worth
fighting for, and liberty ultimately belongs to those willing to suffer for it.
If we remember this, we can bring health where there is disease, peace where
there is strife, progress where there is poverty and want. And when our Tri-
centennial celebration rolls around 100 years from now, grateful Americans
will come to this shrine of quiet valor, this forge of our Republic's iron core.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:12 a.m. at Valley
Forge State Park. In his opening remarks, he
referred to Governor Milton J. Shapp of Pennsyl-
vania, Senators Hugh Scott and Richard S.
Schweiker, Governor Robert D. Ray of Iowa, Rep-
resentative Richard T. Schulze, Lieutenant Gov-
ernor Ernest Klein of Pennsylvania, Secretary of
the Interior Thomas S. Kleppe, and John W.
Warner, Administrator of the American Revolu-
tion Bicentennial Administration.
644
Remarks Upon Signing Legislation Establishing the
Valley Forge National Historic Park. July 4, 1976
Governor Shapp, Senator Scott, Senator Schweiker, Congressman Schulze, Sec-
retary Kleppe, distinguished guests:
This is a great privilege for me to sign this very important bill on George
Washington's desk. I am deeply grateful because of the strong congressional
support over a long period of years. Senator Scott, Senator Schweiker, Con-
gressman Schulze, and many others took the lead, and the net result is that under
1965
