[619]
June 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
to improve mutual understanding. The complexity of our nations' economies, in-
dividually and collectively, means that we, as leaders, cannot afford to allow
major difficulties to arise and then, by dramatic meetings, attempt to resolve
them. It requires, instead, that we concert our efforts to prevent problems from
arising in the first place—to shape the future rather than reacting to it. It is with
that objective in mind that this summit is being held.
The central economic, political, and security importance of our countries to
one another and to the world confers upon us special responsibilities. In the
economic area, on which we will focus today and tomorrow, our strong commit-
ment to shape constructive approaches can contribute to the prosperity of our
peoples, strengthen our broader relationships, and prove highly beneficial to the
world at large. Recent experience has clearly demonstrated that because of the
interdependence of our nations, common problems are unlikely to be solved
unless we apply our mutual efforts. They have, in addition, shown that our com-
mon interests are far more significant than the differences which arise among
us from time to time. We have, therefore, wisely approached recent problems
with a political will and spirit of cooperation which have not only helped us
resolve them but which have, in fact, strengthened considerably relations among
our nations and among the industrialized democracies as a whole.
This conference builds on and can help us continue the progress already made.
The vision and sense of shared purpose which results from our meetings will
help each of us pursue constructive policies at home with respect to our economic
partners and in dealing with major global issues.
I am confident that the same positive spirit that was developed at Rambouillet
will extend through our meetings here in Puerto Rico and beyond. Much of the
world's future depends on our constructive cooperation.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4 p.m. at the Dorado Beach Hotel, Dorado Beach, Puerto Rico.
620
Remarks at the Conclusion of the International Summit
Conference in Puerto Rico. June 28, 1976
WE HAVE just concluded 2 days of very productive discussions on a number
of issues of great importance to us all. Our talks were characterized by a serious-
ness of purpose, a firm desire to improve our understanding of one another's
views, and a common commitment to strengthen constructive cooperation
among all nations.
1920
