[325]
April 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
APPROPRIATIONS TO HALT HEROIN TRAFFIC
[13.] Q. Mr. President, yesterday you took your hard-line stance again on
heroin traffic here in this country. And there has been some talk among Texas
representatives that some budget allocations for immigration agents along the
Texas-Mexican border could be cut back a little bit, necessitating a drop in the
number of agents guarding the border. I think you are aware there has been a
larger amount of heroin traffic coming across from Mexico. Would you be in
favor of increasing the budget for immigation agents to watch the border?
THE PRESIDENT. As I said last night, 80 to 90 percent of the heroin that comes
into the United States today comes across from our southern borders. We have
proposed that there be a beefing up of our total Federal law enforcement effort
in this area in order to meet this challenge.
Now, if we find at any point that more people are needed or more money
is required to meet this problem, I will be very, very anxious to suggest addi-
tional appropriations. But it has to be shown as a matter of need.
I think based on the facts that were presented to me in November and Decem-
ber of last year, when we put the budget together, that what we recommended
was adequate, fully adequate. But if the circumstances prove otherwise, of course,
I would recommend the additional funds, if needed.
JOHN CONNALLY
[14.] Q. Mr. President, have you and Governor Connally had any conversa-
tions or talks about the possibility of his being your running mate or taking a
high Cabinet position?
THE PRESIDENT. We, in our very delightful dinner at the White House about
a week ago, covered a wide range of matters, including politics, but I don't
think I should divulge a personal conversation between my good friend and my-
self. It was a very broad discussion.
VICE-PRESIDENTIAL RUNNING MATE
[15.] Q. Mr. President, while Rogers Morton was in Fort Worth this past
week, he predicted that you would probably talk to a wide range of top Repub-
licans before choosing your running mate. Is that correct?
THE PRESIDENT. I think it is the obligation of a Presidential candidate to en-
courage recommendations from all segments of our party. And in Kansas City
and perhaps before, I will certainly solicit such recommendations from people in
the party from all over the country.
President Ford Committee campaign manager.
1072
