April 28
[380]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
is currently sponsoring a major national survey on that subject. We must con-
tinue our efforts at the Federal level to help local authorities improve their ad-
ministration of justice. That is why I have recommended that funding for the
Law Enforcement Assistance Act be extended through 1981, so that programs
such as this can continue and so that we can confront special crime problems.
The studies will help local authorities to deal much more effectively and more
extensively with rape victims and will aid in the prosecution of rapists. Over
$18 million of LEAA funds have been used by State and local authorities to
find more effective ways of dealing with the problem of rape across the country.
In another area I am pleased to note that today the LEAA and the Adminis-
tration on the Aging are signing an agreement which will help to target law
enforcement resources on the criminal threat to the elderly, and this a serious
problem all over the United States.
Still another program with very special promise was instituted at my direc-
tion shortly after I took office. In September of 1974 I directed the Department
of Justice to undertake in connection with State and local government a career
criminal impact program. The career criminal program is founded on a very
basic truth—most Americans are law abiding and the vast majority of serious
crimes in this country are committed by a very small minority of habitual
offenders.
This small minority has chosen to place itself outside of our society, commit-
ting criminal acts not once, but again and again and again. They are a chronic
threat to our security.
We must identify them, bring them to justice, and make their punishment
swift and certain, and we will.
Here in Texas two career criminal programs are actually now underway. In
Houston, one program began in July of last year and today the average time
from arrest to indictment is 9 days for those identified as career criminals ver-
sus 42 days for other criminal cases.
The time from arrest to trial for career criminal defendants is a month less
and for other criminal defendants sentences have averaged 25.8 years. That is
not a bad record. Most important of all, since this program got underway in
Houston, there has been a significant decrease in the number of armed robberies
compared to the year before.
Not far from here, in Dallas, another career criminal program has been in
effect for the last 6 months. In that brief time, it has zeroed in on 23 third-time
offenders. It has shown the career criminal what awaits him. Of those 23, 20
1267
