[401]
April 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
spending, and this is what his answer was in the area of defense: "One"-his
quote-"One has always to face the fact that there are facts not known to you
and which cannot be known to you because of its classification, and this always
must be kept in mind as a reservation about any opinion that you might render."
My friends, I would respectfully suggest to you here today that any candidate
who begins his campaign by saying he doesn't know enough about national
defense to talk about it, and then, in the heat of battle, suddenly tries to make
it the central issue, you can hardly expect the American people to take him
very seriously.
ENERGY SUPPLIES
[8.] Q. Mr. President, I would like to ask you a question regarding our
energy supplies. What is your view, sir, concerning the Federal Government
in controlling both the sources and the distribution of our basic supplies, such
as coal, oil, gas, and so forth?
THE PRESIDENT. Sir, in January of 1975, I recommended to the Congress total
decontrol of domestic oil and total decontrol of new natural gas. Unfortunately,
the Congress came along after 11 months and gave me the opportunity to par-
tially decontrol and steps that I could use to decontrol over a 40-month period.
I would have preferred total decontrol of both, but now that we have this law,
which was marginally acceptable, I am using every provision to decontrol dis-
tillate fuels, residual fuels, and eventually gasoline as quickly as we can, plus
every step in the 40-month period, so we can get rid of controls, period, and
that is a pledge made to you and to the American people.
Q. Thank you, Mr. President.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:50 p.m. at Lub-
bock Munkipal Coliseum. The forum was sponsored
by Texas Technological University.
In his opening remarks, he referred to Senator
John G. Tower, chairman of the Texas President
Ford Committee, and Clint Formby, chairman of
the board of regents, and Terry Wimmer, president
of the student association. Texas Technological
University.
Prior to his remarks, he was presented with a gold
medallion bearing the seal of Texas Technological
University by Grover E. Murray, president of the
university.
402
Question-and-Answer Session With Texas Technological
University Students in Lubbock. April 30, 1976
THE PRESIDENT. First, it's nice meeting you, and second, I'm not going to make
a speech because I have been doing that. So, why don't we just let you all handle
it the way you want to.
1372
