[621]
June 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
expansion, and to the indispensable companion goal of defeating inflation pro-
vides the basis for increased stability.
Our objective of monetary stability must not be undermined by the strains
of financing international payments imbalances. We thus recognize the impor-
tance of each nation managing its economy and its international monetary af-
fairs so as to correct or avoid persistent or structural international payments im-
balances. Accordingly, each of us affirms his intention to work toward a more
stable and durable payments structure through the application of appropriate
internal and external policies.
Imbalances in world payments may continue in the period ahead. We recog-
nize that problems may arise for a few developed countries which have special
needs, which have not yet restored domestic economic stability, and which face
major payments deficits. We agree to continue to cooperate with others in the
appropriate bodies on further analysis of these problems with a view to their
resolution. If assistance in financing transitory balance of payments deficits is
necessary to avoid general disruptions in economic growth, then it can best be
provided by multilateral means coupled with a firm program for restoring un-
derlying equilibrium.
In the trade area, despite the recent recession, we have been generally success-
ful in maintaining an open trading system. At the OECD we reaffirmed our
pledge to avoid the imposition of new trade barriers.
Countries yielding to the temptation to resort to commercial protectionism
would leave themselves open to a subsequent deterioration in their competitive
standing; the vigor of their economies would be affected while at the same time
chain reactions would be set in motion and the volume of world trade would
shrink, hurting all countries. Wherever departures from the policy set forth in
the recently renewed OECD trade pledge occur, elimination of the restrictions
involved is essential and urgent. Also, it is important to avoid deliberate ex-
change rate policies which would create severe distortions in trade and lead to
resurgence of protectionism.
We have all set ourselves the objective of completing the Multilateral Trade
Negotiations by the end of 1977. We hereby reaffirm that objective and commit
ourselves to make every effort through the appropriate bodies to achieve it in
accordance with the Tokyo Declaration.
Beyond the conclusion of the trade negotiations we recognize the desirability
of intensifying and strengthening relationships among the major trading areas
with a view to the long-term goal of a maximum expansion of trade.
We discussed East/West economic relations. We welcomed in this context
1924
