[516]
May 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
Total retail sales are up more than 14 percent. Automobile sales are up 34 per-
cent over a year ago. Food sales are up more than 7 percent. General merchan-
dise is up 12 percent. The prime rate of interest has been reduced from 12 percent,
when I became President, to 634 percent today.
Since the bottom of the recession, almost exactly a year ago, we have gained
3,300,000 more jobs and more than 710,000 more jobs in the last month alone.
But the most encouraging statistic is more Americans-87,400,000-are on the job
today, more than ever before in the history of the United States.
Considering where we started about 12 months ago when the unemployment
rate was nearly 9 percent, I think that's a very good comeback by any standard.
And, after months and months of higher unemployment and mounting fear,
America today is getting back to work. Faith in the future has been totally
restored in our great country.
It's perfectly obvious we're going in the right direction, but I will not be
satisfied until every American who wants a job can find a job in America. But
let me assure you, we will not achieve full employment by letting the Federal
Government plan and control our national economy. Just over a week ago, I
proposed to the Congress a very broad and comprehensive 4-year agenda for
action in reform in every major segment of our economy as far as the Federal
Government is concerned. This would include, for example, EPA, OSHA, plus
all of the other more or less traditional regulatory agencies.
This, if the Congress will cooperate, will give to us an opportunity to say that
unless the Congress acts on what we propose in regulatory reform-if they don't
act in 9 months-what the President recommends will become the law of the
land. And this is the only way that I know, from the 25 years of being a part
of and dealing with the Congress, that we can get them to move in the right
direction. And I ask for your help.
My administration has also undertaken some of the most fundamental re-
forms of Government regulations and reporting requirements in this country's
history. I was amazed. In the past, small business in America spent $18 billion
every year just to comply with Government reporting requirements. Most of
the merchants in American shopping centers are small business men and wom-
en, and it's time that they got back to working for their customers instead of
working for the Government. To put it another way, it's time the Government
minded its own business for a while and let you run yours.
More government will not solve America's economic problems. The answer
is less government control, less wasteful government spending, and lower taxes
for middle-income Americans.
1684
