May 22
[505]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
The PRESIDENT. Well, in 1972 when we reopened the doors between China
and the United States, a Shanghai communique was issued which called for the
gradual movement of better relations, broader relations, deeper relations, aim-
ing at some point to normalization of relations.
I believe very strongly-having been there in 1972, again having gone back
in 1975—that it is important for the United States to have a broadened relation-
ship with a nation that geographically is the largest in the world, and 800-some
million people.
The progress of that relationship is on schedule. It will continue on schedule
as long as I'm President. We will meet any of the problems you mentioned at
the appropriate time, but so far the relationship is constructive, on schedule,
and when we have any problems of the kind you're mentioning, we will meet
them and handle them.
Q. Mr. President, Cornell and Harvard Universities have recently said a cure
for spinal cord injuries is possible. I am sure that you will agree that research
on spinal cord regeneration is desperately needed. The National Foundation for
Paraplegic Research is attempting to raise funds. Would you help us to walk
again and people like us all over the world, by funding money to this very
worthwhile cause?
THE PRESIDENT. I didn't hear the last part.
Q. Would you help people like us all over the world to walk again by fund-
ing money for this very worthwhile cause?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me say that just the earlier part of this week I met in
Washington with a young man-he came from the West, I've forgotten his
name-who had a tragic injury, and he was selected as the young man or the
individual of the year to represent those like himself, as well as yourself. I
indicated to him at that time that we had gotten the Veterans Administration,
where many of these cases are treated, more money and we are putting a greater
emphasis on that program in the VA.
I hope that we can broaden our efforts. I am sure you are familiar with the
fact that this young man went to the Soviet Union and had an operation there
because they are allegedly further ahead in this area than we. He came back
feeling that that operation conducted in Moscow had been helpful and beneficial
to him.
So, that is one of the reasons why it is good for us to have an exchange,
whether it is in medical matters or in cultural matters or in trade matters or any-
thing else. And I can assure you that we in the executive branch of the Govern-
1651
