[398]
April 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
ing that span of time two things happened: We had the war in Korea; we had
the war in Vietnam. And in addition, both of those economies, despite our cold
war attitude, improved their economic status. Obviously, that policy didn't pre-
vent war, and it didn't prevent them from increasing their capability.
It seems to me that a policy of negotiation is infinitely better than confronta-
tion, and I think we can point to some success in that regard.
Number one, by being able to talk and to negotiate, the United States has
had a very, very successful effort in the Middle East. Because we were not con-
fronting the Soviet Union, but we were able to work with the Arabs on the one
hand and the Israelis on the other-and I know something personally about
that-both of them trusted us. We were able to make significant headway in the
progress toward a permanent and a fair and equitable settlement in that very
controversial area of the world.
Now, if we had been in the cold war situation that existed for 25 years, the
United States couldn't have moved into the Middle East and worked out the
Sinai agreement, which is a major step forward, because the Soviet Union
would have confronted us as they had over a period of 25 years.
So, it's my judgment, using one example after another, that if we are willing
to negotiate, not giving up anything that involves our own national security,
it's a lot better than going through the kind of tragedy that we had over a 25-
year cold war period. It just makes more sense. And I defy anybody to say that
the United States has given up anything that involved our national security as
far as the Soviet Union is concerned, except Angola, and that wasn't my fault—
that was the problem of the Congress that turned us down.
RIGHT-TO-WORK LEGISLATION
[5.] Q. Mr. President, my name is Bill Roach, I'm vice president and general
counsel of Texas Instruments. My question this morning is, in the event Congress
were to enact legislation repealing section 14(b) of the Taft-Hartley Act which,
as you know, would eliminate the Texas right to work law, would you invoke
your power to veto on such legislation?
THE PRESIDENT. I certainly would. Ever since I was sworn in to the Congress
on January 3, 1949, I have consistently taken the position that section 14(b)
must be a part of our labor-management legislation. And that's not so easy in
a State like Michigan. [Laughter]
Q. That's right.
THE PRESIDENT. It's a lot more difficult than to say it down here in Texas————
Q. I used to live there.
1352
