May 14
[482]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
just, equitable peace in that very volatile, very controversial part of the world.
And you know why we were able to have a major function in getting Arabs,
on the one hand, and Israelis, on the other? Because they trust this adminis-
tration, they know we have the capability militarily and diplomatically. They
know that we are doing the best we can to solve some of the most difficult
problems in international affairs in the history of mankind, but we have made
one major step in that area, and we can make some more in the years ahead.
Or if you go to the Pacific, we suffered a setback in Vietnam. Many people
in that part of the world felt that we were going to withdraw and not participate.
But because we have strengthened our alliance with Japan, today, along with
other allies in the Pacific, the United States has a presence and a meaningful
influence in the Pacific.
So, regardless of where you look in this world today, the United States can
hold its head high, can be proud. We have got the military capability to
convince our allies of our strength and to keep our adversaries from taking any
risks whatsoever. So, this administration has achieved peace, we have it, and
4 more years will keep peace.
But let's look back, for a moment, to see where we were a year ago, as far as
the economy was concerned. We were in the depths of the worst recession in
the last 40 years. It had been preceded in 1974 by inflation that was 12 percent
or better per annum—the highest inflation by some 50 years.
I can recall very vividly some labor leaders and some politicians, mainly on
the other side of the aisle, who lost their cool and got panicky and said to the
President and said to some Members of Congress, we've got to spend a lot more
Federal money, we've got to add a lot of new programs, we have to do a lot of
things on an emergency basis.
Well, that sounded like good politics then, but the truth is it was the wrong
thing to do, and I didn't do it. I kept my cool. We fought off the Congress.
I vetoed 49 bills; 42 of them have been sustained, and we have saved the taxpayers
$13 billion. And I'll add a footnote: If they send any more of those budget-
busting bills down to the White House, I will veto them again and again and
again.
I'm not talking rhetoric about saving taxpayers money; I'm talking about
fact, and that's what counts in this ballgame.
Yes, and let's take a look at the problem of the Federal budget. In January
this year, I submitted to the Congress a budget that would cut the growth of
Federal spending by 50 percent, and I said that we need another tax reduction
1589
