[573]
June 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
I just can't believe that in Hamilton County or in the other counties of
Ohio you are going to let the wrong person lead the ticket for the Republican
Party in 1976. We can win. I can be elected, and I can help elect more Repub-
lican Members of the House and the Senate, at the State legislature, and in the
local courthouses.
That is the way you build a party. That is the way you maintain a political
philosophy. That is the way you make headway in trying to keep America
on the right path economically, militarily, diplomatically, morally, spiritually,
and everything else.
All I am saying to you is we have got about 24 hours to make the difference
in what you do here in Hamilton County. We are in the last minute of the last
quarter, and this is when you really turn on the steam. This is when you
convince people, and you get people to the polls.
We did a pretty good job in Michigan a few weeks ago, and as I said in the
other meeting, this is one time I would love to see Ohio beat Michigan's record.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:25 a.m. in Reception Room 205 at the Cincinnati Convention Center.
574
Remarks in Middletown, Ohio. June 7, 1976
THANK YOU very, very much, Tom, Governor Rhodes, Senator Bob Taft,
Congressman Chuck Whalen, and all of the local officials and distinguished
guests, but, most importantly, all the wonderful people from Middletown who
have done a superb job in coming out here and welcoming me on this occasion.
I can't thank you enough for your help and assistance come tomorrow.
Let me tell you why I think I deserve your vote and why I will do what is
good for this community, for this State, and this country in the months ahead.
First, we want to talk about jobs. I want to thank Bob Taft, Tom Kindness,
and Chuck Whalen and the others for consulting with me and urging that I
impose a quota system on stainless steel so there will be more jobs at the
ARMCO plants in this community.
Let me make an announcement, if it hasn't been announced already. Yester-
day, before I took off to come to Ohio, I signed the necessary document that
imposes the import quota on stainless steel,' and it will go into effect, period.
'See Proclamations 4445 and 4477 (41 FR 24101, 29089).
1832
