July 6
[653]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
I recognize there is merit in the argument that some areas of the country are
suffering from exceptionally high rates of unemployment and that the Federal
government should provide assistance. My budgets for fiscal years 1976 and 1977
do, in fact, seek to provide such assistance.
Beyond my own budget recommendations, I believe that in addressing the
immediate needs of some of our cities hardest hit by the recession, another meas-
ure before the Congress, H.R. 11860 sponsored by Congressman Garry Brown
and S. 2986 sponsored by Senator Bob Griffin provides a far more reasonable and
constructive approach than the bill I am vetoing.
H.R. 11860 would target funds on those areas with the highest unemployment
so that they may undertake high priority activities at a fraction of the cost of
S. 3201. The funds would be distributed exclusively under an impartial formula
as opposed to the pork barrel approach represented by the public works portions
of the bill I am returning today. Moreover, H.R. 11860 builds upon the success-
ful Community Development Block Grant program. That program is in place
and working well, thus permitting H.R. 11860 to be administered without the
creation of a new bureaucracy. I would be glad to accept this legislation should
the Congress formally act upon it as an alternative to S. 3201.
The best and most effective way to create new jobs is to pursue balanced
economic policies that encourage the growth of the private sector without risk-
ing a new round of inflation. This is the core of my economic policy, and I be-
lieve that the steady improvements in the economy over the last half year on
both the unemployment and inflation fronts bear witness to its essential wis-
dom. I intend to continue this basic approach because it is working.
My proposed economic policies are expected to produce lasting, productive
jobs, not temporary jobs paid for by the American taxpayer.
This is a policy of balance, realism, and common sense. It is a sound policy
which provides long term benefits and does not promise more than it can deliver.
My program includes:
-Large and permanent tax reductions that will leave more money where it
can do the most good: in the hands of the American people;
-Incentives for the construction of new plants and equipment in areas of
high unemployment;
-More than $21 billion in outlays in the fiscal year beginning October 1 for
important public works such as energy facilities, waste water treatment plants,
roads, and veterans' hospitals representing a 17 percent increase over the previous
fiscal year.
1981
