April 26
[365]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
ball, a careful compilation of current decisions and best estimates that deter-
mines the way we want to go in the future for this country.
Using dollar figures, it fixes priorities in every area of public policy. These
budgets are far more realistic and revealing than political party platforms ever
were. My budget and the budget this Congress is about to adopt set forth in
stark contrast the differences between the way I want to go and the way they
want to go.
In providing funds for new military weapons and overall national security
needs, an area of the Federal budget, that Congress has systematically short-
changed by $50 billion over the past decade, the preliminary congressional
figures are substantially the same as the record $114 billion defense budget I
recommended in January.
On this point, for the past 3 months I have worked with the Congress and
on the Congress, and I am glad they are finally getting the word. The American
people want the finest Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marines that money can
buy, and they don't want our unsurpassed power for peace to become a political
football this year.
I'm encouraged by the Congress' reflection on this concern, but there are
plenty of other differences between Congress' budget and mine. They want to
spend $413 billion next year. I propose $396 billion, saving $17 billion in un-
needed Federal expenditures. Also, their budget authorizes over the long term,
$455 billion in new spending; mine would hold this commitment to $433 bil-
lion, again saving $22 billion.
Congress hopes to increase Federal 1977 revenues by $2 billion, but won't
say how. I want to cut Federal income taxes on July 1 by another $10 billion.
Congress wants to increase the fiscal 1977 deficit by $7.2 billion over my budget
figure, bringing the national debt to over $725 billion. My budget would cut the
rate of growth of Federal spending in half, looking toward a balanced budget in
fiscal year 1977 (1979).
Simply stated, the budget proposed by the Congress is another blueprint
for Federal spending, more and more of it, bigger Federal programs, higher
taxes, and going deeper and deeper into debt. My budget is a balanced plan to
cut in half the growth rate of Federal spending, which has run about $50
billion annually in recent years, to further reduce taxes, and to start reducing
the role of the Federal Government in everybody's life.
If my plan is followed, we can have a balanced Federal budget and further
tax reductions by fiscal year 1979. If the Congress has its way, there is every
reason to expect that our present recovery will be followed by a new round of
1213
