[406]
April 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
we have passed through crisis after crisis both at home and abroad and emerged
in each instance stronger and stronger as a country. And I think that tells us
something about the people in this country.
After each crisis we have closed ranks, joined together, and gotten on with
the job. As a result, we have enjoyed unparalleled economic, technological,
social progress in America, and through it all we have had greater freedoms
and greater liberties than any other people in the history of mankind.
That is why I take great pride in being an American, because I know, as you
do, that here, as in nowhere else, we are free to do what we want to do, to think
and to say what we please, and to be, each of us, what we want to be. That is
the kind of a country we have, and so long as I am President of this United
States, that is the kind of a country we are going to keep.
But it will take more than good intentions to maintain our independent
traditions as we enter the third century of our history. It will require a vigorous
national effort to protect our way of life, and one of the greatest threats we have
to face has been the threat to our free enterprise system. The most recent attack
began with the Arab oil embargo in the fall of 1973. The embargo did more than
create long lines at gasoline filling stations and increase the price of fuel or
expose our dependence on foreign suppliers for petroleum. As much as any
single factor, it contributed to the most serious economic recession in four
decades.
I am happy to report that my administration has broken the back of this
recession, but our dependence on foreign oil still remains, and we have got a
job to do in that regard. In fact, we are more dependent on foreign oil now
than we were when the oil embargo took place, and that is because the Congress
of the United States failed to act when you demanded that they act, when I
demanded that they act, and when America's energy needs demanded that
they act.
Fifteen months ago, in January of 1975, I recommended in the State of the
Union Message that I submitted to the House and to the Senate decontrol of
oil and new natural gas prices. The Congress deliberated, the Congress delayed,
the Congress debated, the Congress dawdled all the way from January to De-
cember of 1975, and finally sent me an energy bill. It was a long, long way from
perfect, but it is the law.
In that bill that Congress agreed, fortunately, for the first time, to remove
controls on oil prices. Unfortunately, the Congress insisted that full decontrol
be carried out over a 40-month period.
I indicated last December that I would order immediate steps to remove con-
1386
