May 3
[423]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Then, I want to thank Hall Thompson and Bill Acker for the superb job
they have done. It's 150 percent, and we appreciate that. But Alabama is num-
ber one in all of the States in raising money on the basis of their quota, and we
thank all of you.
Then, obviously, I want to thank the delegates and the alternates who are
out there in the frontline. Nothing would make me happier than to have every
delegate and every alternate down there in Kansas City helping us win that
nomination and, eventually, helping us to win the election on November 2.
I also want to thank, in the presence of all of you, Bill Dickinson, John Buch-
anan, and Jack Edwards ¹ for the great endorsement that they gave me out in the
city square or the city area there this afternoon. I haven't had as strong, as fine
endorsements by a congressional delegation as those three gave today, and I
am very, very appreciative of what they have done.
It's awfully nice to see two former colleagues of mine here, Glenn Andrews
and Jimmy Martin, two fine, fine people who came to the Congress in January
of 1965 and, along with Jack and Bill and John, supported me when I became the
minority leader. Let me tell you how close that vote was. There were 140 Republi-
cans that were sworn in January 3, 1965, and I won by the landslide margin of
73 to 67. [Laughter] If I had not had those five votes of Jimmy and Glenn and
Bill and John and Jack, you know it might have been the other way. [Laughter]
But let me say just a word or two, if I might. I know that you are going back
to talk to your friends, you are going to get people out, you're going to be doing
a wonderful job in the next 28 or 36 hours. I think there are a couple of things
we can talk about that, if you have any people that are on the fence, that have
not quite made up their minds yet—let me summarize it very quickly, because
I think I have done enough talking today. Let me tell you as succinctly as I
can, the selling points that I think make sense.
Number one, when I became President there was a great loss of confidence
in government and, in particular, the White House.
Number two, we were on the brink of the worst economic recession this
country has had in 40 years. Inflation was 12 percent or greater. Unemployment
was about to go up, and employment was about to sink. What has happened?
We have restored confidence and faith, I think, in the White House.
Number three, the rate of inflation has been cut by 75 percent. The first 3
months of this year, the rate of inflation on an annual basis was under 3 per-
cent. In the last 12 months, when we hit the bottom of the recession, we have
¹U.S. Representatives from Alabama.
1463
