June 7
[580]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
tem that had given this country so much in the 200 years. You know a little
history doesn't hurt. When this country started with 13 poor, struggling Col-
onies, they faced adversity beyond comprehension but they believed that an
individual ought to have the right to pursue his occupation without the heavy
hand of government resting on his shoulder or hitting him over the head.
The kind of system that our forefathers gave us permitted this country to
grow to the wonderful land where some 215 million Americans have more
opportunities and more blessing than any other country in the history of man-
kind.
So, we decided that we would give the free enterprise system a chance. And
what has happened? First, inflation, which was 12 percent or more, is now 3
percent or less for the first 4 months of 1976, and that's a good record.
And what does that mean? It means that the paycheck that the man in the
factory, the student—in 1976, he's got more spendable income than he can use,
and use as he wants to. He's not robbed by the ravages of inflation as he was
when I took that oath of office in August of 1974.
But we are going to do better. We are going to stay the course, and we are
going to get the rate of inflation down to the kind of a level where this country
can grow and prosper, and people, whether they're on fixed income or working
in a factory or tilling the soil or teaching in this university, or students who are
going here, will get a fair shake and not be robbed day after day after day by the
kind of inflation we had in 1974.
Then, just about a year ago, we were in the depths of the recession. We had
to do something, and again I had some faith and trust in the kind of a system
where five out of six jobs in this country come from the private sector-and
those arc permanent jobs that give some opportunity for advancement for the
young people who go from high school or college into the working world.
And what's happened? In the last 12 months, 3,700,000 more people are gain-
fully employed in America-300,000 more in the month of May, 700,000 more in
the month of April. We had announced last Friday afternoon or Friday morn-
ing by the Department of Labor that 87,700,000 people are gainfully employed
in this country—an alltime record, and we should be darned proud of it.
I'm not going to talk about unemployment statistics. Let me put it this way:
87,700,000 jobs, an alltime record. That does not satisfy me. We are going to
get 90 million jobs as soon as we possibly can, and we are well on the road for
that objective.
Let me add one final note: President Ford is not going to be satisfied until
everybody has a job who wants a job. That's the only criteria by which this
1849
