July 9
[657]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
of the White House is going to be uncertain for next year? Are we sort of at a
standstill for the rest of the year in foreign affairs?
THE PRESIDENT. I have said specifically, as far as SALT is concerned, if we
can get a good agreement I will make that agreement regardless of any political
consequences. We are in the process of thoroughly analyzing our last proposal,
the Soviet Union's reaction or last proposal. And if we can move forward on a
good SALT agreement, I certainly will push for it, because I think it is in the
national interest and in the best interest of mankind as a whole. So, politics
won't enter into any decision as far as SALT is concerned. I know of no other
major areas that would have any political consideration as far as foreign policy.
Q. How about the SALT agreement?
THE PRESIDENT. I intend to push for it. I am not passing judgment as to
whether it will come or won't come, but we are working on it, and I intend
to push it. Whether we can achieve an agreement or not is uncertain. But it
is in the best interest of the United States and mankind as a whole if we can
get the right agreement. And I will do it regardless of the political atmosphere
that may prevail here because of our election.
RONALD REAGAN
[23.] Q. Mr. President, can we pin something down? Is Ronald Reagan
qualified to be President?
THE PRESIDENT. I said the person I select for the Vice Presidency will be
qualified, and I don't exclude anybody.
Q. Therefore, he is qualified?
THE PRESIDENT. That's a fair conclusion—[laughter]—if he is the nominee.
[Laughter]
PRESIDENT FORD COMMITTEE
[24.] Q. Mr. President, are you satisfied with the way your campaign
committee has performed through the primary and convention State season?
And after the convention, do you foresee at this point a substantial reorganiza-
tion of your campaign?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't see any substantial reorganization. I have said, through
Ron and otherwise, that Rog Morton is going to stay on. We intend to add
people to the top echelon over there as the need arises for particular jobs that
must be handled, such as the convention, such as other responsibilities. I see
no anticipated major reorganization. Like any other organization, you look
back in retrospect as a Monday morning quarterback—you might have done a
little better here and there. But I think the President Ford Committee, consider-
ing all the problems, has done a good job.
1997
