[513]
May 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
century. That will be a century for individual freedom and achievement and
self-fulfillment. I see it as a century in which Americans will build on all of the
great accomplishments of our first 200 years. But to do that, Americans must be
secure in their homes and in their streets and in their jobs and in a peaceful
world. It must be a century of security for all Americans wherever they live,
they work, or wherever they play.
Consider the very real concern of so many Americans about the problems of
crime. Let us start with the great Preamble of our Constitution, which seeks to
"insure domestic Tranquility . . ." Law makes human society possible. It
pledges safety to every member so that the company of fellow human beings can
be a blessing instead of a threat.
Do we provide that domestic tranquility which the Constitution seeks? If we
take the crime rates as an indication, the answer has to be "No." Violent crimes
on our streets and in our homes make fear pervasive. They strike at the roots of
our community life. They make citizens fear one another.
The time has come for society to act in its own self-defense. As a first im-
portant step, I strongly favor the use of the death penalty in the Federal criminal
system in accordance with proper constitutional standards. The death penalty, in
certain circumstances, should be imposed upon the conviction of sabotage,
murder, espionage, and treason, and I think most Americans support that
approach.
In murders involving substantial danger to the national security or when
the defendant is a cold-blooded, hired killer, the use of capital punishment is
fully justified.
The harsh fact is that passivity and permissiveness invite crime and that the
certainty of punishment prevents crime-I mean positive, swift, and just
punishment.
We all recognize the criminal justice system need not be vindictive to be effec-
tive. As President, I will give no comfort to those who make false allegations of
police brutality. I will not excuse the real brutality that exists in America today—
the brutality of hoodlums in the streets of our cities throughout the United
States.
Millions and millions of our citizens, including the elderly and the poor, lock
themselves in their homes, fearing violence. I would, instead, lock up the crim-
inals who make them afraid. A legal system that is exploited by the criminal but
ignores his victim is sadly out of balance. I ask your help and that of all Ameri-
cans in restoring that balance.
The great majority of crimes constitute violations of State laws and, therefore,
1676
