April 23
[362]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
would such a policy as, you know, expressed by Mr. Reagan affect the realization
of our national goal for the world in peace?
THE PRESIDENT. First, let me state categorically, the United States has not been
pushed around. That is good rhetoric, but it ain't true.
Now, let's talk about the Panama Canal because my opponent has made some
very strong and very categorical statements in that regard. The only way you
can interpret those statements are that the present negotiations between the
Government of the United States and the Government of Panama should be
ended.
This administration and President Johnson's administration and his successor's
administration and my administration believe that negotiations are the respon-
sible action to take. And those negotiations were undertaken as a result of a seri-
ous riot that took place in Panama in 1964 where 24 people were killed—20
Panamanians and 4 Americans. It was decided at that time that we ought to
sit down and talk with the Panamanian Government. For what purposes? For
the purpose of trying to make sure that we have control over the operation, the
maintenance, and the defense of that canal during its economic lifetime. That's
what we want, and I think if we are patient and wise and strong, eventually at
a proper time we can get such an agreement, which is the responsible thing to
do. And any agreement would go on into the next century—it's not going to
happen tomorrow or the next day, it is a 40-to-50 or maybe longer year
agreement.
Now, let's take what my opponent's arguments are. He says cut off the
negotiation. What would that lead to? First, it would lead to probably a
resumption of the kind of riots, the bloodshed that took place in 1964 when 24
people were killed, except probably more. It would inevitably antagonize, it
inevitably would arouse the ire of 25 South American and Latin American na-
tions that involve 309 million people. That is an awful lot of people to antago-
nize, and it would undoubtedly lead to more bloodshed, it undoubtedly would
require for us to protect that canal instead of having 10,000 U.S. military person-
nel stationed in Panama in peace, as we do today. You would have to send
another 10,000 or another 20,000 American GI's there to protect it. I just don't
think that makes much sense, and I think it is completely and totally irrespon-
sible to break off those negotiations.
RELAXATION OF TENSIONS IN THE WORLD
[2.] Q. Mr. President, I was wondering, what is your evaluation of détente
thus far?
1195
