[446]
May 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
But I also want to thank very deeply all of you who are volunteers, who have
worked hard and are doing a good job in making sure that we win on Tuesday,
and we are going to win.
But we have about 72 hours and that is not too much time to double and
treble your efforts. I know you have worked hard. I know you probably are a
little fatigued, but you win a ballgame by that last effort in the last quarter, and
this countdown is vitally important. So, I urge you to maximize your efforts
in the hours ahead. And as you meet your friends, talk to your neighbors, vour
farmer neighbors or your city neighbors, your professional friends or those who
are in churches with you, let me give you in a capsule form what I think are the
best selling points. They can be put in the label of prosperity, peace, and trust.
Let's take each one very quickly. Prosperity-refresh your memory-21
months ago this country was suffering inflation at the rate of 12 percent or
more and for the first 3 months of 1976 the rate of inflation is 3 percent or less.
That is a 75-percent reduction in the rate of inflation and that is not a bad
batting average by any standard.
Refresh your memory-a year ago the doomsayers were saying we were on
the brink of a depression. We were in a recession. We admitted that, but intead
of panicking, instead of getting hysterical, we took a firm, steady, right course,
and the net result is we are now having, according to the latest figures published
yesterday, 86,400,000 people gainfully employed, the most in the history of the
United States.
In those statistics that were released yesterday-two very impressive figures.
We gained 700,000 jobs in one 30-day period, and in addition, from last April to
this year we made a total gain of 3,300,000 jobs. The policies that we had, the
programs that we followed, produced this kind of result.
So, the Ford administration can take credit for it, and we ought to be proud
of it. It ought to be a big selling point for us when we go to the polls, or you
all go to the polls on next Tuesday.
Now, one other point. I said indirectly to the students at Nebraska, the
graduating class, they were the first class in 30 years--30 years-that could
graduate and have a choice whether they wanted to go into the military or
whether they didn't. This is the first time in 30 years that young people gradu-
ating from a university or a college would not be faced immediately with a
mandatory obligation under selective service. And why have we been able to
give them a choice-either they could volunteer or they could go into their
1512
