July 4
[645]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
of our Nation from the steeple of the State House. It was never intended to be a
church bell. Yet a generation before the great events of 1776, the elected assembly
of Pennsylvania ordered it to be inscribed with this Biblical verse: "Proclaim
liberty throughout all the land unto all the inhabitants thereof."
The American settlers had many, many hardships, but they had more liberty
than any other people on Earth. That was what they came for and what they
meant to keep. The verse from Leviticus on the Liberty Bell refers to the ancient
Jewish year of Jubilee. In every 50th year, the Jubilee restored the land and the
equality of persons that prevailed when the children of Israel entered the land
of promise, and both gifts came from God, as the Jubilee regularly reminded
them.
Our Founding Fathers knew their Bibles as well as their Blackstone.ยน They
boldly reversed the age-old political theory that kings derive their powers from
God and asserted that both powers and unalienable rights belong to the people
as direct endowments from their Creator. Furthermore, they declared that gov-
ernments are instituted among men to secure their rights and to serve their pur-
poses, and governments continue only so long as they have the consent of the
governed.
With George Washington already commanding the American Continental
Army in the field, the Second Continental Congress met here in 1776, not to de-
mand new liberty, but to regain long-established rights which were being taken
away from them without their consent.
The American Revolution was unique and remains unique in that it was
fought in the name of the law as well as liberty. At the start, the Declaration of
Independence proclaimed the divine source of individual rights and the purpose
of human government as Americans understood it. That purpose is to secure the
rights of the individuals against even government itself. But the Declaration did
not tell us how to accomplish this purpose or what kind of government to set up.
First, our independence had to be won. It was not won easily, as the nearby en-
campment of Valley Forge, the rude bridge at Concord, and the crumbling bat-
tlements of Yorktown bear vivid interest.
We have heard much, though we cannot hear it too often, about 56 Ameri-
cans who cast their votes and later signed their names to Thomas Jefferson's
ringing declaration of equality and freedom so movingly read to us this morning
by Miss Marian Anderson.
Do you know what price the signers of that parchment paid for their patriot-
ism, the devotion to principle of which Lincoln spoke? John Hancock of Mas-
1 Blackstone's Commentaries on the Law of England.
1967
