[469]
May 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
done. I think he is a great Cabinet member. I think you will find that he is an
outstanding member of the team and an outstanding Secretary of Defense
[Commerce].
Thank you very much.
Not The Pra adent
470
in Columbia R-m Eat the 11 tt Regen
11 to
Remarks at the National Bicentennial Salute to Small
Business. May 13, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Mitch, members of the National Advisory Council.
honorees, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
Let me second what was said by Dr. Powell. Tom Kleppe was an outstanding
head of SBA. That is why I selected him to the Cabinet position of Secretary of
Interior. But let me say without hesitation, reservation, or qualification, Mitch
Kobelinski is doing a super job, and we are proud of him. And I know you will
find him an outstanding person to work with.
And may I specifically acknowledge and congratulate the honorees. It is a
great tribute to what you have done. It is a great tribute to the small business
aspects of our society, and I congratulate and commend each and every one of
you.
Obviously, it is a great honor and privilege for me to have the opportunity to
participate in this Bicentennial Salute to Small Business. George Washington
once wrote, “Let your discourse with men of business be short and comprehen-
sive." Like America, that advice is about 200 years old, but I think it is still
pretty good in 1976.
In the earliest days of American history, small business men and women were
among the first to revolt against the tyranny and the oppression of a faraway
government. Seeking the freedom to control their own lives and economic desti-
nies, hundreds and hundreds of merchants and shopkeepers as well as crafts-
men helped wage and win the fight for America's independence. With that in-
dependence, small business has played a very major role in building America
to the greatness in the two centuries that have followed.
You account for 97 percent of all nonfarm business in America, for nearly
half the Nation's gross national product, and nearly three-fifths of all nonfarm
private employment.
About 100 million Americans own, work on, or work for small business
1558
