[401]
April 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
I am determined, as I have always been, to keep America's military might
unsurpassed by any nation in this world.
You know, sometimes when I hear critics complaining about American
defense policy and American foreign policy, always complaining but never
offering any programs of their own, I am reminded of one of the finest Texans
I ever had the privilege to know in the Congress of the United States.
Sam Rayburn served 50 years in Washington. He had more years as Speaker
of the House of Representatives than any person in the history of our great
country. He served with over 3,000 Congressmen and Senators, 8 different Pres-
idents. And sometimes at the end of a long, long day, after Sam Rayburn had
worked hard to make a better life for America, when he heard from the chronic
complainers, he loved to recall what his father, another fine Texan, once said,
and I quote: "Any donkey can kick a barn down, but it takes an awfully
good carpenter to build one up." And that is good advice when we are talking
about some of our matters today.
Now, as far as national security policies of the United States are concerned, I
am convinced that the American people would rather have a President who is
constructively working to build the foundations of lasting security than spends
most of his time trying to kick them down.
We are at peace today, and we enjoy the blessings of freedom in this great
land because we are strong enough to keep the peace, to deter aggression, and
strong enough to protect our national security. And don't let anyone else tell
you otherwise because it isn't true.
I know that in the course of a primary campaign, you have heard one charge
after another about how America is a second-rate power, that we have lost our
course, this great country, that we will have to turn the clock back to find Amer-
ica worth living in.
Well, frankly, I am sick and tired of people who run down the United States
of America. I am very proud to be an American, and I am proud of our country,
and I know that each and every one of you in this audience feels precisely the
same way.
I have, as I am sure you have, a deep, abiding faith in the goodness and in the
greatness of America. I look to the future, as I am sure you do, not the past—a
future that we can fill with new glory and new achievement for the land that
each and every one of us loves. That is my vision, and I am sure it is your vision.
And that is why I am asking for your support tomorrow, next November, and
in the 4 challenging years ahead.
1366
