July 1
[635]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
dom of choice and opportunity as her two brothers-her three brothers-Mike,
Jack, and Steve. [Laughter] One of them is married and, you know, they don't
have quite the same—[laughter]—
Now, as the United States enters its third century, we can all ill-afford to
disregard the rights or neglect the strengths and talents of one-half of our popu-
lation. There is no such thing as women's rights. There are only the rights of
all Americans to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. Women's rights
should not be granted as an act of charity, for those rights are theirs already.
By eliminating the barriers to freedom, we are doing no more than fulfilling
a promise made in Philadelphia 200 years ago.
I thank you for your help. I thank you for the great job you have done. And
I commend you for what you will do in the months ahead.
Now, let me indicate to you that we are going to have a little reception over
here on the South Lawn. And also, Betty has indicated that I should extend
to all of you an opportunity to see the ground floor as well as the state floor
after you have wandered around and enjoyed yourselves out at the reception.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:50 p.m. at a recep-
tion in the East Garden at the White House. In his
opening remarks, he referred to Jill Ruckelshaus,
outgoing presiding officer, and Senator Charles H.
Percy of Illinois.
The report is entitled ". . . To Form a More
Perfect Union . . .', Justice for American Wom-
en-Report of the National Commission for the
Observance of International Women's Year, 1976"
(Government Printing Office, 382 pp.).
635
Statement on the Removal of Certain Oil Price Controls.
July 1, 1976
TODAY we are taking another important step forward in removing unneces-
sary Federal regulations and controls. Allocation and price controls on heating
oil, diesel fuel, and kerosene are being terminated. These controls have limited
competition, worked against the best interests of consumers, and hurt small
business.
The proposals to remove the controls were submitted to the Congress on
June 15, 1976, and yesterday both the House and the Senate allowed the pro-
posals to go into effect.
The Federal Energy Administration has concluded that supplies of middle
distillate petroleum products are fully adequate to meet expected needs, and
that there should be no price increase as a result of removing the controls.
1949
