May 13
[470]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
exchanges were established 200 years ago. We have reduced the Interstate
Commerce Commission's regulation of railroads for the first time since the
creation of that agency in 1887. We have increased civil and criminal penalties
for antitrust violation to ensure that competition can flourish and that there is
still freedom in the free enterprise system.
The Congress is now considering additional legislation that I proposed to
reform regulations concerning airlines, the motor carrier industry, and financial
institutions. In addition to these regulatory reforms, I have directed every agency
of the Federal Government to reduce by at least 10 percent the number of
reporting forms that it produces and requires of the American people. And I
have set a deadline of July 1. I got a progress report a couple of days ago which
said that deadline will be met. And I can assure you it will or there will be
some people who might hear a word or two. [Laughter]
But I add that this is only the beginning of a project that is long overdue.
I have also met with the heads of independent regulatory agencies and asked
for their support in reducing unneeded and costly delays. The results are
somewhat apparent. The Security [Securities] and Exchange Commission used
to take about a year to hand down opinions. It is now down to about 45 days,
and soon they tell me it will take 30 days. The Small Business Administration
is launching a pilot program that will reduce the processing time for loan
guarantees from a month or more to just 48 hours. Good luck, Mitch and
Louis.ยน [Laughter] We will check up on you.
The Labor Department has reduced and simplified reporting requirements
for small business pension funds saving the small businessman and the
Government nearly $1 billion in yearly costs.
A radio station in New Hampshire once paid $26 in postage just to mail an
application to the Federal Communications Commission. Now, that application
has been reduced to one sheet of paper. That's progress despite the increase in
postal rates. [Laughter]
And while it once took 6 to 8 weeks to get a license from the FCC to use a
citizens band radio, today a temporary license may be obtained at the time of
purchase. How do I know? I asked First Mama. [Laughter]
Last Friday, I created temporary Presidential task forces to simplify and
streamline Government regulations beginning with the Federal Energy
Administration and the Occupational Safety and Health Administration. The
Congress has given these agencies a job to do but they can do that job without
ยน Louis R. Laun, Deputy Administrator of the Small Business Administration.
1561
