May 22
[501]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
500
Remarks at the Swearing In of the Six Members of the Federal
Election Commission. May 21, 1976
Justice Brennan, my prospective members of the Commission:
I think this is a very good day for the country and for the political process
that we're going through at the present time. At long, long last, after many
regrettable delays, we are finally putting the Federal Election Commission back
into business.
The significance of today, however, is that once again we have a watchdog
to ensure that the election process proceeds as fairly and as honestly as possible
in full accord with the law.
By their actions, the members of this Commission whom we are swearing in
today can do a great deal to build and to restore public trust in the political proc-
ess. This is one of the greatest contributions that anyone can make in public
life in America.
So, all of us wish you the very best and wish you well as you begin your work
once again.
It's now my pleasure to call upon Justice Brennan to administer the oath of
office to these six outstanding individuals who have great responsibilities.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:05 p.m. in the
Rose Garden at the White House.
William J. Brennan, Jr., Associate Justice of the
Supreme Court, administered the oath of office to
Joan D. Aikens, Thomas Everett Harris, Neil
Staebler, William Springer, Vernon Wallace Thom-
son, and Robert Owens.
501
Exchange With Reporters on Arrival at Medford, Oregon.
May 22, 1976
IT'S really great to be in Oregon. I have been here a good many times. I have
always enjoyed it. I think I have a lot of friends here.
I am out here to make a very direct approach to this campaign. The theme of
my campaign is peace, growing prosperity, and the restoration of trust in the
White House. The record is very clear. We have achieved the peace, we are
maintaining it, and we are going to keep it through our military capability and
our diplomatic skill.
We inherited a very bad economic situation. Inflation was 12 percent. We
were on the brink of high unemployment, and in the last year we made sub-
1635
