June 9
[585]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
and we think as we go to the convention that we will get the necessary 1,130-plus
in order to get the nomination on the first ballot.
I will be glad to answer any questions.
REPORTER. Mr. President, how do you intend to proceed to get the 150, and
have you had any commitments?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we are going to maximize our effort, but I don't think
we're in a position to discuss the precise procedures as to how we will work
with the uncommitted delegates. There are a number there that are honestly
making up their mind, and it's our view that we can convince them by using
the argument that we did in Ohio.
I am electable, and I can help to elect more Republican Members of the
House and Senate. Delegates understand that. They want to vote for a winner
in November at the Kansas City convention, and they want to pick a nominee
that will help elect more Republicans to the House and Senate and more State
legislators.
Q. Mr. President, will that argument hold as well against Jimmy Carter as
it would against, say, Hubert Humphrey, since Mr. Carter is not from
Washington?
THE PRESIDENT. Frankly, I haven't thought about just what arguments we
will use, because although it looks like Jimmy Carter is going to be the nominee,
we take first things first.
Q. Mr. President, Jimmy Carter has said that if he is elected President, he
would pardon all of the Vietnam draft dodgers and evaders. Have you thought
about reassessing your position on that, or what would you do if elected?
THE PRESIDENT. I answered that in Bowling Green State University the other
night when I indicated that in September of 1974, I put forward a program
whereby those who had been draft dodgers or draft evaders could come in
voluntarily and earn their way back and clear their records. About 20,000 of
them, as I recall, did. We extended the time about 90 days beyond the original
date, and all of those who wanted to are in the process or have completed it.
And I regret that more didn't, but I have no plans to go beyond that.
Q. Mr. President, do you anticipate a series of platform fights leading up to
the convention?
THE PRESIDENT. It's possible, but it's premature to know exactly how that
might develop.
Q. Mr. President, assuming you get the nomination, are you willing to engage
in televised debate with your Democratic opponent?
1863
