[527]
May 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
economic statistic is the index of consumer confidence. It is double in 1976 what
it was in 1975.
In economic terms that means the American people are spending more
money, moving more goods, and even willing to borrow for major purchases
for the future. In broader terms, it means the American people are looking to
the future with faith instead of with fear.
I deeply appreciate this opportunity to talk with you here this afternoon, to
speak to you about some of the policies that in good, honest, deep conviction I
have returned peace and prosperity and trust to America.
Today, America is at peace. There are no American boys fighting anywhere
on the face of the globe, and I intend to keep it that way. I will maintain the
peace because we have the military capability to do so and the diplomatic
skill to accomplish it. I will secure the peace through strength and perseverance
and leave the legacy of peace for our children and their children.
I will continue my policies of cutting your taxes, expanding the private
economy, reducing the bureaucracy and useless regulation, and restraining
Federal spending. My policies have brought us from the depths of a recession
to a sustained recovery and will ensure that runaway inflation will never again
rob us or our loved ones of the rewards of honest work and lifetime savings.
Finally, I want to finish my most important job-the restoration of trust in
the Presidency itself. As your President, I will promise no more than I can
deliver and I will deliver everything that I promise.
I do need your support to ensure peace and prosperity and trust for the future,
the future that we owe to our children and to their children. Americans have
always wanted life to be better for our children than it was for us, because life
has been better than it was for our parents.
What do I see ahead for this great country in which we live and which we
love? I see a strong and confident America, secure in a strength that cannot
alone be counted in megatons, a nation rejoicing in riches that cannot be eroded
by inflation or by taxation. I see an America where life is valued for its quality
as well as for its comfort, where the individual is inviolate in his constitutional
rights, and where the government serves and the people rule.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:03 p.m. at McCabe
Hail in San Jose. In his opening remarks, he referred
to Halsey Burke, master of ceremonies and chair-
man of the Santa Clara County President Ford Com-
mitter. Evelle J. Younger, California State attorney
general, Mavor Janet Gray Hayes of San Jose, Paul
A. Mariana, Jr., president and chairman of the board
of International Business Parks, Inc. Ronald R
James, president of the San Jose Chamber of
Commerce, and David Packard, Deputy Secretary
of Defense 1969-71 and chairman of the board
of Hewlett Packard Electronics Co. of Palo Alto,
Calif.
1724
