June 6
[569]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
the world's future. This will be our challenge for as far ahead as any one of us
can see.
In my travels across the country, I have found that the American people know
this. They know that we cannot have security for ourselves unless we maintain
the global balance of power. They know that we cannot remain prosperous, and
spread prosperity to more Americans, in a world which is deeply divided by con-
frontations between the rich and the poor, producers and consumers, free mar-
ket economies and centrally planned economies. They know that America can-
not continue to exist as a just society by turning its eyes away from injustice
elsewhere in the world.
The American people are ready to do their share, but we are tired of those
who deliberately belittle our Nation, running down our strengths and poisoning
the political debate. The American people know that this is a strong country
and this is a good country.
In my meetings with world leaders, I found that they are getting this message.
The resilience of our economy and our society, after all we have been through,
is clear to everyone. Today, our allies and our friends have new faith in our com-
mitments. Our potential adversaries have no doubt about the risks of further
adventurism. The simple fact is we are not losing the struggle for a safer and
more peaceful world; we are winning, and we will keep on winning.
The foundation of our world role is American military strength. Through-
out my own career, as Frances well knows, I have been a champion of the strong
defense which is essential to our own security and to international stability.
Largely because of this strength we are at peace today. On this day, the an-
niversary of D-day on the beaches of Normandy, no American soldier is
fighting on any battlefield anywhere in the world. And we are engaged in
realistic negotiations with adversaries to reduce the dangers of future confronta-
tions and wars.
As a nation, we have pulled our economy back onto the road of prosperity
and to stable growth. Nothing else we do has such benefit, not only for every
American and their families but for millions of families around the world whose
well-being depends in large measure on the vigor of the world economy.
Finally, we are at peace, not only with others but with ourselves. In over-
coming the doubts and the dissensions of the past, we have regained our position
as a vital, moral force in the world today. Now, as much as ever, America is a
beacon of hope to all who yearn for freedom, well-being, and justice.
In this Bicentennial Year, we rightly celebrate our past. We have earned it.
But it is also a moment to think about the future. The quest for peace will always
1821
