May 13
[464]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
that's why 215 million people can live in peace, can disagree, but still have that
real depth of affection and love for America.
And let me say, if you will give me 4 more years, I'll promise you to go from
the problems we had in August to the heights that America has never seen in
the past, because that's what I want, that's what you want for your kids and my
kids, and we can do it. I'll do it with your help.
Thank you very, very much.
You know, there is one thing I forgot to ask you. I need your votes next Tues-
day. How many are going to vote for Jerry Ford?
I see a Democrat for Ford, an Independent for Ford, and there are a couple of
Republicans for Ford here. But let me say, this is a crusade and the chips are
down for next Tuesday. I'm counting on you, and I won't let you down.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9 p.m. at Macomb Mall.
464
Memorandum on the Cabinet Committee for Drug Law
Enforcement. May 13, 1976
[Dated May 12, 1976. Released May 13, 1976]
Memorandum for the Secretary of the Treasury, the Attorney General, the
Secretary of Transportation
Subject: Cabinet Committee for Drug Law Enforcement
Drug abuse, particularly narcotics addiction, has reached crisis proportions in
the United States. Current estimates are that as much as half of all street crime is
committed by drug addicts to support their expensive and debilitating habits.
The cumulative effect of drug abuse has been to diminish the quality and vitality
of our community life and to weaken the fabric of our nation. It is imperative,
therefore, that Federal law enforcement efforts aimed at those who are respon-
sible for distributing illicit drugs in our communities be as effective as possible.
In my recent message to the Congress on drug abuse,ยน I announced the
establishment of a Cabinet Committee for Drug Law Enforcement, to have
responsibility for oversight and coordination of all Federal drug law enforce-
ment activities. You are hereby appointed members of the Cabinet Committee,
along with such other members as I may appoint from time to time. The Attor-
ney General shall serve as Chairman of the Cabinet Committee.
ยน See Item 368.
1549
