[365]
April 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
inflation and then another recession with higher unemployment, in the same
old roller coaster pattern of the postwar years.
Last October, I warned all Americans that we were at a crossroads in our
history, that we must decide whether to continue on the path toward bigger
government, higher taxes, and higher inflation, or choose a new direction-
halting the growth of government, restoring prosperity, and allowing indi-
viduals a greater and greater voice in their own future. My State of the Union
and Budget Messages in January provided the details of the new direction that
I proposed.
Now, in its budget process, the Congress has also come to the crossroad
and it looks like Congress will deliberately decide to stick to the old road, a road
that leads inevitably to ruin.
I supported the idea of a congressional budget process in the Congress, and
I welcome it as President. This year, each Member of the House and Senate
and all committees are compelled to consider the Federal budget as a whole
and to apportion expenditures in some relation to expected revenues and toler-
able deficits. This is the way Presidents and taxpayers have always had to con-
sider their budgets.
The new law that requires Congress to impose fiscal limits on itself, while
it is authorizing and appropriating money certainly should produce a greater
measure of responsibility than the time-honored rule of tax and tax, spend and
spend, elect and elect. At least I hope it will.
I welcome the contrasting approaches so clearly revealed in the two budget
proposals-Congress' and mine. The upcoming battle of the budget is a crucial
showdown and, with the support of the American people, I mean to fight it out
if it takes all summer and more and more vetoes.
So far, I have vetoed 48 bills sent to me by this Congress and 39 of my vetoes
have been sustained which, incidentally, has saved the American taxpayers some
$13 billion. Let me say, there are plenty of more vetoes where those came from.
But more important, my position is plain and my budget proposals are pre-
cise. The way to sustain economic growth is to encourage our free, private econ-
omy to expand, to modernize, to produce more goods at lower prices. The way
to create more jobs and reach full employment is through the private enter-
prises, where five out of six jobs are found. These are real, rewarding, perma-
nent jobs with a purpose and with a future.
Furthermore, the position of the majority in the Congress is plain and their
budget priorities are precise. They believe that more direct Federal interven-
1214
