April 9
[322]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
strong thank you for all of you who have come here and given this support. I
am very, very grateful, and I can only tell you as strongly as I can you haven't
let me down, and we aren't going to let you down.
I have really been talking so much today I have kind of gotten tired of hearing
myself talk. But it's, I think, good every once in a while for us to take a minute
or two and see where we were and where we are going. And I was thinking as
I came down on the plane this afternoon, or this morning rather, in August of
1974, we were in real trouble. We had economic conditions that were un-
believable, inflation over 12 percent and on the brink of a serious economic
recession, unemployment about to explode, and employment to plummet.
And as I look back over this last year, I am very proud of the American people,
and I am extremely proud of the kind of government we have because, despite
the worst recession in 40 years, the American people didn't panic, they didn't
succumb to the blandishments of quick fixes and superficial proposals. We tried
to have a strong, steady, constructive course, which I think we did. And we
got the kind of support that was needed and necessary from people like John
Tower and others.
And the net result is, you know, the skies look pretty good now. Everything
that is supposed to be going up is going up. And everything that is supposed
to be going down is going down. And if we don't lose our cool, and we keep
the same firm, steady progress in programs that we have, we are going to
have the most prosperous country in the history of the world. And it will be
permanent, not a lot of ups and downs, peaks and valleys. That is what we are
aiming for, and that is what we are going to get.
We have got other problems besides the economy, but let me just add one
comment about where America stands in the world. I always thought I was
the second best informed person in the Congress on military affairs—I always
conceded that John Tower was number one. [Laughter] But number 2 out of
535 isn't bad. So I had in the House of Representatives 12 years on the Defense
Appropriations Committee that met 5 days a week, 5 hours a day, 7 months a
year, listening to Secretaries of Defense, Secretaries of Army, Navy, Air Force,
admirals, generals, you have it. And I believe over a period of that many years,
I understand what the programs and the policies are, both strategic as well as
conventional. And I can tell you without any hesitation or qualification that
the military capability of the United States today is unsurpassed, period.
If you take strategic forces, we have a superiority where our technicians and
specialists and military leaders say we should have it. We have more warheads
1055
