[533]
May 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
If we continue making the progress America has made in the last 12 months,
we will see that goal achieved. If I had to sum up the record of my administra-
tion in just a very few words, it would be peace, prosperity, and trust.
Today America is at peace. There are no American boys fighting anywhere on
the face of the Earth, and I intend to keep it that way.
I will continue my policies of cutting your taxes, expanding the private econ-
omy, reducing bureaucracy and useless regulation, and restraining Federal
spending. My policies have brought us from the depths of a recession to a
sustained recovery and will ensure that runaway inflation never again robs us
or our loved ones of the rewards of honest work and lifetime savings.
Finally, I want to finish the most important job-the restoration of trust in
the Presidency itself. As your President I will promise no more than I can de-
liver, and I will deliver everything that I promise.
I need your support to ensure peace, prosperity, and trust for the future-the
good, secure, fulfilling future that we owe to our children and to our grand-
children. Americans have always wanted life to be better for our children than
what it was for us, because life for us has been better than it was for our parents.
Now, what do I see for this great country of ours in the future? I see a strong
and confident America, secure in a strength that cannot alone be counted in
megatons, a nation rejoicing in riches or blessings that cannot be croded by in-
flation or by taxation.
I see an America where life is valued for its quality as well as for its comfort,
where the individual is inviolate in his constitutional rights, where the govern-
ment serves and the people rule.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:24 p.m
State Fairgrounds. In his remarks, he referred to
Governor James A. Rhodes of Ohio an! Secretary
of Agriculture Earl I.. Butz
534
Remarks at the State Capitol Building in Columbus, Ohio.
May 26, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Jim Rhodes, my friends in the Congress. Barbara
Nicklaus, Woody Hayes, all of you:
It's great to be in Columbus, and let me tell you why I'm here.
In the last 21 months I have worked at trying to restore the economy, trying
1742
