[396]
April 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
ladies in the State of Texas in the last 2 days, and it's nice to meet Miss Texas.
Congratulations, and best wishes to you.
With those observations and comments, I would be delighted and pleased
to answer any of your questions.
May I say with the deepest gratitude, I'm delighted to be here in Dallas and to
be, at this time, with Mayor Bob Folsom. And I am delighted, of course, and
highly honored and pleased with the endorsement of Tom Landry for my can-
didacy for the nomination, as well as the Presidency of the United States, and
thank you very, very much, Tom.
I would be glad to answer any questions.
REPORTER. It's been said that you will ask Congress to repeal the Byrd amend-
ment. Why did you wait so late to ask Congress to repeal, and what type of
effect will it have on other countries? Will you ask them to also buffer up the
sanctions on that amendment?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think, first, you have to understand the factual situa-
tion. When I was in the House of Representatives as minority leader, when I
became President, I have consistently believed that the overall benefits of the
repeal of the Byrd amendment overcame any reasons to retain the Byrd amend-
ment. So, I haven't changed my position. I have been consistent for a long, long
time, and I hope and trust that the Congress will do so.
Q. President Ford, you are reported as saying that the Nation will be better
off as soon as it forgets Watergate. Do you think that's a self-serving statement
since obviously the Republican Party will be better off as soon as the Nation for-
gets Watergate?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think that that was a very unfortunate period in
American history, a real tragedy, and I think we have more important things
to think about in the future than to be concerned and distraught by some of the
problems that occurred in the past.
As a personal matter, I think the record is very, very clear. When I was nomi-
nated for Vice President, 400 FBI agents spent better than a month checking
my record from birth to my age, and they found nothing that had any connec-
tion whatsoever with the Watergate affair, nothing. And then two committees,
one in the House and one in the Senate, investigated, interrogated me, and came
to the conclusion I had no connection whatsoever with Watergate.
Then the Senate and the House as a whole, by overwhelming votes, confirmed
me, clearly indicating that in their opinion-and I want you to remember it
'An amendment introduced by Sen. Harry F. Byrd, Jr., of Virginia, originally adopted in November
1971, which prevented the importation of Rhodesian chrome into the United States.
1340
