April 30
[406]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Well, it is a great opportunity and a great challenge. It takes a lot of time,
but it is an opportunity for someone to dedicate his life, in effect, to do what
he thinks is best for 215 million Americans at home and abroad, and that is
what it is like.
It is not a 40-hour-a-week job, I can tell you that, but I love it and I want to
have an opportunity to give this country leadership for the next 4 years.
ALL-VOLUNTEER MILITARY FORCE
[12.] Q. Will we have selective service any more in the future?
The President. The lady asked, will we have selective service anymore in
the future.
I have recommended that we continue with the all-volunteer military force.
And during my administration, we have achieved the necessary manpower
requirements of the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, and Marines, without
utilization of selective service or the draft.
The Joint Chiefs of Staff have asked for a manpower of 2,100,000, and we
have gotten every one of them by the all-volunteer military recruitment program.
Now, if I might, I would like to add a postscript to that. There are some who
say that the Soviet Union has 4 million men under arms and that we have
2,100,000, the inference being that if we were doing the right thing, we should
go to 4 million men under arms. First, no responsible military officer in this
country has recommended that we have 4 million men under arms. But let me
add this: If we were to go to 4 million men, as some people are advocating or
inferring, we would have to go back to selective service and the draft. I don't
think we want it, because we are doing all we have to do with 2,100,000 men
under arms at the present time.
THE PRESIDENT'S VETO RECORD
[13.] Q. As you know, you are probably in a little more conservative coun-
try basis than some places. And there are a lot of us who would like to say that
we admire your courage to stand before the Congress vetoing many of the bills
as you have, very, very much.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you. I thank this very, very kind gentleman for men-
tioning the fact that for the last 20 months, I have vetoed 48 bills passed by the
Congress. The Congress has sustained 39 of those vetoes. And we have saved
the taxpayers of this country $13 billion, because I vetoed those bills and we
got 39 of them sustained.
1395
