[318]
April 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you all very, very much. It's nice to see you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:08 p.m. in the VIP
Room at the San Antonio Civic Center. In his
opening remarks, he referred to Senator John G.
Tower, chairman of the Texas President Ford Com -
mittee, and Seagal V. Wheatles, cokchairman of the
San Antonio President Ford Committee.
319
Remarks at a President Ford Committee Reception in
San Antonio. April 9, 1976
Thank you very much, Art, Senator John Tower, all of you wonderful President
Ford workers:
I have had a wonderful 5 or 6 hours here in San Antonio-the warmth of the
reception every place we have been, the enthusiasm that we find here--I just
think we might surprise somebody. [ Laughter]
At the outset, let me express my deepest personal gratitude and appreciation to
John Tower, who has been an outstanding person to take over the leadership and
the head of the President Ford Committee. John, I can't thank you enough for
this help and assistance.
But let me also indicate my deepest appreciation and gratitude for all of you
who have made those 5,000 calls here in San Antonio and all of you who have
made them all over south Texas.
You know, we started behind up in New Hampshire; we started way behind
in Florida. We—in both cases, because we had good leadership in our organiza-
tion, because we had the enthusiasm of the people who manned the phone
banks, the people who did all the other things, and because we had sound policies
to begin with that gave the American people in those 2 States, as well as they will
in the other 48 States, the kind of confidence that makes them feel as though the
next 4 years will be better and better-that is why we won-leadership, enthusi-
asm, and the right programs. When we come down here to Texas, we are going
to perhaps start from behind, but we are going to surprise some people.
Whenever Betty or I go to a phone bank setup-whether it is in New Hamp-
shire or Florida or Illinois, Wisconsin or North Carolina-we try to indicate to
the people who are on the phone the answers that they should give to people
who raise questions.
And I suspect as you man phones, you inevitably, on one occasion or another,
will get a question. Let me give you very quickly-I think in broad perspec-
tive-what we have done in the last 19 months. We got a record, and it is a
1036
