April 23
[359]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Our memorial today is a recognition of their deeds and a celebration of their
legacy and it is a prayer for the divine care of men who pressed the battle of
freedom and made freedom secure. And it is a pledge to them of America's
unfailing resolve to preserve, enhance, and cherish the freedom that they made
secure for us. America has no intention of abdicating its leadership to any
nation committed to the destruction of liberty.
We know that the freedoms we have defended so often are being challenged
today. We know that our strength, our vigilance, and our national resolve are
the foundations of hope for peace and stability in the world.
When I took the solemn oath of office as your President 20 months ago, I
pledged myself and our Nation to an uninterrupted and sincere search for peace.
I said then, and I say again today, that America will remain strong and united,
but our strength will be dedicated to the safety of the entire family of man as
well as to our own precious freedom.
America has seen too much of war in the 20th century, too much of suffering
and dying on bloodstained fields of battle. We cherish the peace that America
enjoys today, the peace that finds no American boys in combat anywhere on the
face of the globe.
Peace today has a very special significance because war today has a very
special terror. The devastation and death left in the wake of a thermonuclear
war would be so great that the world as we know it would simply cease to
exist. Therefore, we must do our very best to keep the peace, not the peace of
weakness and concession but the peace secured by strength and courage and
dedication. That is the role that destiny calls us to play.
Our country is very special in the eyes of the world. America shines today
as the brightest beacon of hope for millions who live in the darkness of tyranny
and oppression.
The men whose mothers we honor today have held that beacon high, have
carried it into battle and made the darkness retreat. Now, they have passed the
beacon to us. In the quality of our lives, in the steadfastness of our purpose, we
must show ourselves worthy of the sacrifice that they made on our behalf.
May we, like them, devote ourselves to peace and liberty and, like them, march
always in the ranks of honor.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:45 p.m. at the
Peachtree Presbyterian Church. In his opening re-
marks, he referred to Rear Adm. Hugh H. Powell,
Jr., member, and Col. Pembroke W. Williams, com-
mandant, Atlanta chapter, Military Order of World
Wars, and Dr. W. Frank Harrington, pastor, Peach-
tree Presbyterian Church.
The American Gold Star Mothers is a national
organization comprised of mothers who lost a son or
daughter while serving in the Armed Forces of the
United States.
1187
