[489]
May 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
Mr. President, Madam Giscard d'Estaing, America bids you a most cordial
welcome.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:45 a.m. on the
South Lawn at the White House, where President
Giscard d'Estaing was given a formal welcome with
full military honors. President d'Estaing responded
first in French and then repeated his remarks in
English as follows:
Mr. President, I feel especially fortunate to be
the President of France, to whom it falls to come
and celebrate with you the Bicentennial of your
independence.
First, in calling to mind the imagination, initia-
tive, and courage of those great men whose suc-
cessors we are and who, on both sides of the At-
lantic launched the idea of liberty, first here in
1776 and then echoed by France in 1789.
Secondly, because in the course of these two
centuries, our two countries have remained friends.
This example is perhaps unique in history. We are
fully aware of the role you played in defending
our liberty. The French people have not forgotten;
they thank you for it.
The real secret of our understanding springs
from the principle which inspired it. Both coun-
tries have shown without a break, and sometimes
in dramatic circumstances, an identical passion for
independence and liberty.
Today, two centuries later, this principle re-
mains at the center of the world's problems-the
independence of peoples and the freedom of men.
This is the reason why I have come to tell you,
Mr. President, that the France of 1976 is as much
committed to the struggle in the defense of hberty
as she was, along your side, two centuries ago.
My sincere wish is that this Bicentennial meeting
should be for our two countries, for the United
States and for France, a festival of liberty, that
principle of democratic liberty that will-if we
have the determination-will continue to shape
the destiny of the world.
Long live the United States and the great people
of America.
490
Message on the Observance of National Handicapped
Awareness Week. May 17, 1976
I COMMEND the attention of all Americans to National Handicapped Aware-
ness Week. It is an observance which should remind us of our need to eliminate
architectural barriers which still stand in the way of handicapped citizens and
our need to build a system of public transportation which brings new mobility
to those who are handicapped.
Our success in heeding the message of this observance can result in more
jobs—and a greater variety of jobs-in more businesses and industries. It can
bring closer the day when all our citizens have full access to public facilities and
when all Americans can more fully exercise their inherent rights.
The message of National Handicapped Awareness Week should remain
with us as a continuing commitment to enable handicapped Americans to
achieve greater personal self-fulfillment and meaningful contribution to our
society.
NOTE: National Handicapped Awareness Week was observed May 16-22, 1976.
GERALD R. FORD
1616
