April 9
[323]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Last year, the administration sent to the Congress legislation that would
require mandatory prison sentences for persons convicted of high-level traf-
ficking in heroin and similar narcotics. Sentences would not be less than 3 years
for such traffickers and would range up to a total of 30 years.
Unfortunately, this legislation has been caught up in the great debate over
Senate bill 1, which is a very controversial piece of legislation. And, unfortu-
nately, unless we break it out, unless we separate it from other very controversial
reorganization and rewriting of our Federal Criminal Code, I am afraid we
can't get affirmative action.
But because we cannot afford delay, I am recommending the separation of
these recommended provisions to handle these problems from S. 1 which is a
comprehensive rewrite of our Federal Criminal Code.
I will recommend, in a special drug message that will soon be sent to the
Congress, the separation and to urge the Congress to act as quickly as possible
in order to join with us in the executive branch with the local and State people
who are trying to do something very affirmatively in this 1-year period.
Now, beyond halting this illegal flow of drugs from abroad and stiffening
our domestic law enforcement, still another prong of attack on drug abuse
must lie in prevention, treatment, and rehabilitation.
In recent years we have made very significant progress in the United States
creating a very large and successful treatment network. Today, some $460 mil-
lion in Federal funds is spent annually on prevention, treatment, and rehabilita-
tion, 10 times more than we spent just 7 years ago. We can now treat more
than a quarter of a million drug addicts at one time in the United States. In
addition, recent studies show that the number of addicts who go back to drugs
after they have been treated has dramatically declined, which indicates that the
treatment is better and certainly, if we can get them early enough, it's infinitely
better.
Encouraging progress has also been made in working with local leaders on
programs of drug education, and particularly counseling. I know that the people
of Dallas must take a very special pride in the highly innovative program that
has been set up with Federal seed money, and is now run by the Dallas Inde-
pendent School District under Dr. Nolan Estes. This program, as I understand
it, built on the philosophy that the drug problem is actually a human problem,
has turned countless numbers of individuals away from drug abuse and has
helped to rehabilitate many, many others.
And what impresses me most about this effort is that its leaders are not only
concerned adults but young people themselves-young people who have a
1061
