May 24
[517]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:17 p.m. in the
Grand Ballroom at the MGM Grand Hotel. In his
opening remarks, he referred to Robert List, Nevada
State attorney general, and Frank A. Orrico, presi-
dent, and Sylvan M. Cohen, president-elect, Inter-
national Council of Shopping Centers.
517
Remarks at a President Ford Committee Reception in Las Vegas.
May 24, 1976
THANK YOU very, very much, Oran, Bob List, Glen Mauldin, thank all
of you who have come to this opportunity for me to talk straight to you, to tell
you what we're trying to do, and to thank you for your support and assistance in
a program that I think is in the best interest of the United States. I thank you
very, very much.
As much as I am strongly in favor of a healthy and prosperous automobile
industry, let me say I urge you in 1976, don't trade in your reliable Ford for
a flashier model. [Laughter]
I would like to talk to you very seriously for a moment. The stakes are very
high in this preconvention challenge that we have. The stakes are very high
for what happens between now and November 2, and I, in all sincerity, ask
you to go back to what the circumstances were in August of 1974 when I was
sworn in as your President.
If you will recollect, there had been a great loss of trust and confidence in
the White House. If you will remember that inflation was over 12 percent and
we were on the brink of the worst economic conditions in the history of the
United States for 40 years. If you will remember that our allies abroad were un-
certain as to the course, the will, and the resolution of the American people.
Our adversaries could have been in a position, if they had wanted to, to take
advantage of the uncertainty in America.
Let me assure you that day of August 9 was not the easiest day to be sworn
in as President of the United States. But, let me say that I decided right from
the outset that regardless of any political consequences, any political dis-
advantages that might follow in the months ahead, that I was going to do what
was right for America and that I would not promise that I would do more than
I could produce, and I would produce everything that I promised.
So, let's review very quickly what has happened and transpired in the 21 or
22 months since August of 1974. Inflation was over 12 percent. For the first 4
months of 1976, the rate of inflation on an annual basis is 3 percent or less. That
1687
