[387]
April 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
strength, the unsurpassed capability of the United States, is a matter of public
record. And Mr. Reagan's charges, as he has made them in a simple, unverified
way, in my judgment, is also before the American people. I think the American
people can judge it over a period of time in that way much better than a 30-
minute debate on public or private television.
THE PRESIDENT'S DELEGATE SUPPORT
[16.] Q. Should you go into the Republican National Convention without
the necessary 1,150 delegates supported to you, based on your answer about Mr.
Carter and the smoke-filled room, would you then free those delegates at the
convention to move and look for another potential nominee?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we fully expect to have 1,130 delegates by Kansas City
time, so we aren't considering under any circumstances anything but winning
in Kansas City.
WATERGATE AS A CAMPAIGN ISSUE
[17.] Q. Mr. President, Len Hart of KILT-Radio in Houston.
"All the President's Men" is currently enjoying a tremendous box office suc-
cess all across the country, as well as here in Houston. How will the release of
this motion picture, as well as the release of the book, "The Final Days," have
an effect on Presidential politics or the Presidential campaign?
THE PRESIDENT. It certainly should have no effect on my candidacy, because
at the time that I was nominated for the Vice Presidency, I had the most thorough
investigation by over 400 FBI agents all over the country examining my records
from birth on up. And when they got through with their investigation, the
Senate Committee on Rules held several hearings; I answered all of their ques-
tions. The House Committee on Judiciary held hearings; I answered all their
questions. I got approval from the two committees, and I got an overwhelming
vote in the Democratic Congress endorsing my candidacy and indicating with-
out any question of a doubt that I had no relationship whatsoever to Watergate.
So, as far as my candidacy is concerned, Watergate and all the problems that
took place prior to August of 1974 won't affect me whatsoever or my candidacy.
What impact it might have on others, I'm not qualified to say.
[18.] Q. Mr. President, as a man who should know, how much of the book,
“The Final Days,” can we take seriously; how accurate is it?
THE PRESIDENT. The only part that I am qualified to pass judgment on—as
far as I know the book is reasonably accurate. I think, however, that it is in bad
taste in a number of cases.
1306
