[353]
April 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
President Ford Committee here in Indianapolis and elsewhere in Indiana for
the superb job that all of you are doing to make certain that we carry Indiana
on May 4.
I can see here in this room that you are not only great in quantity but,
goodness me, you have got the best quality I can imagine.
Let me give you a quick analysis of where we are. As we get more or less
to the halfway mark, we are well above the 50 percent of the delegates that
we need to win in Kansas City in August of this year. And when we keep
going down the road with the momentum that we have gotten from the
various primaries and from the various convention States, that momentum is
real, and we are going to Kansas City and win, and win in November there-
after.
And let me tell you why I think we will win. We have got great organiza-
tions and outstanding leadership in every State of the Union, and you here in
Indiana are typical. You have got the top people at the head, and we have
got tremendous volunteer support.
I think also we have the right programs. And what are those programs?
Those programs are aimed at having a strong economy that is going to provide
jobs in the private sector, and those jobs have come because we have got the
right programs.
As you will recall, when I became President we were on the brink of a very
serious recession—the worst in 40 years in this country. We didn't panic. We
took the right course of action. We decided that the best place to get jobs for
people was not in government, loading up the Federal payroll, but getting
jobs in the private sector, and it has paid off because right now we are moving
up. Everything is going up that ought to be going up and everything is going
down that ought to be going down, so keep the faith. We are going to win on
this. It is the best program of any for any candidate to have this kind of a move,
this kind of a trend that we have right today.
But let's talk about our other big assets. I think the old traditional pro-
grams are still sound. If you have got prosperity at home and peace around the
world, those are the programs that are successful. And right now, for the
first time in a good many years, there isn't a single U.S. military officer-
man in combat around the world. We have got peace, and we are going to
keep it that way.
Now let me just make one or two other comments. A lot of politicians-
and I exclude Bill and I exclude the great Governor and your fine, outstand-
1160
