June 6
[562]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
man Forsythe, Congressman Rinaldo, and Congressman Roe-your own Con-
gressman-Mr. Haines, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
I am really delighted to be here this afternoon to join you in participating
in this historic occasion. Let me say that listening to both of your excellent high
school bands makes me think of a very important day coming up in November,
a great contest that must be on the minds of all of you. I mean, of course, that
Thanksgiving Day game between the Knights and the Ghosts.
Today, the Great Falls [of the Passaic/] Society for Establishing Useful Manu-
facturers' Historic District takes its place alongside such sites as Mount Vernon,
Monticello, as a national historic landmark. That makes this a very important
day in Paterson—not just for Paterson but for the entire United States.
Many of you and I emphasize many of you-have worked hard in Paterson
to bring about this designation to be a part of this wonderful park, Haines
Memorial Park. I compliment and congratulate all of you for the participation.
And you―each and every one of you—should be very, very proud of what we see
here today in this designation.
All America can look at this landmark and consider what it really rep-
resents. Great Falls is joining 21 other landmarks which were the settings
for important facts and important acts in the drama of our Nation's industrial
development.
But this site has a very particular significance within that very select group.
The sheer number of different industries that were established here make this
site very unique. Great Falls represents the first attempt within the United
States to harness the entire power of a major river.
The development of the Great Falls industrial site was also a distinctly
American project in another important aspect. In addition to native-born Amer-
icans, the original developers, as I understand, included immigrants from
France, Britain, and Ireland. But most of all, far more important than anything,
the industrial history of the Great Falls goes back to the very first years of our
United States, and this engineering achievement embodied our most basic
political and economic goals-independence and prosperity.
The Society for the Establishment of Useful Manufacturers was stimulated
by our first Secretary of the Treasury, Alexander Hamilton, to use Paterson as
a place to encourage America's economic independence and demonstrate the
value of American industry. Let me add that this city and what it represents
remains very important to our Secretary of the Treasury today, a native of
Paterson, my good friend and yours, Bill Simon.
Others in Hamilton's day, a good many years ago, came here to Paterson to
1805
