June 6
[567]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
where five out of six jobs exist anyhow. But this economy we are now moving
forward with is the kind of economy that gives jobs that are permanent, that
provide for advancement, that are the kind of jobs that are meaningful and not
as the result of a bloated Federal budget where people are put to work for a
few months and then fired.
We have the right kind of an economic plan that provides 3,300,000 more
jobs in 12 months. As we work with your Governor seeking to build the kind
of highways that will come out of the $17 billion highway program that I
signed into law a week or two ago, the uranium enrichment plant down in
Portsmouth, these are the kinds of cooperative efforts that provide primarily
the jobs in the private sector, but at the same time coordinate those efforts with
those in the public sector.
So, this administration has turned the economy around. Everything that is
supposed to be going up is going up, and everything that is supposed to be going
down is going down. The best evidence of those things that are going down is
the drop in the rate of inflation. When I became President 22 months ago, the
rate of inflation was 12 percent or more per year. For the first 4 months of this
calendar year, the rate of inflation, which affects everybody, rich or poor, those
on welfare and otherwise, was at the rate of 3 percent. We've made a 75-percent
reduction in the rate of inflation, and I am darn proud of that achievement.
This country is at peace. We achieved it, we have the military capability, we
have the diplomatic skill to maintain it. And let me add two footnotes. There
is not a single American boy fighting on foreign soil under this administration,
no American boy sacrificing his life on foreign soil. I might add a second point.
The Ford administration never has, never will commit U.S. troops to southern
Africa.
Now, let's talk about two other reasons why President Ford ought to be
nominated. Number one, he can be elected, and there isn't another Republican
candidate that can be elected. And thirdly, if we want to strengthen the Re-
publican Party in the House and the Senate, if we want to add to the Republican
Party strength in the local offices and in State offices, you want a candidate that
can win, that carries the party forward.
Some of you may remember the tragedy of 1964, and let me tell you how it
affected the Congress. In 1964 we had 180 some Republicans in the House of
Representatives. We lost almost 50. Do you want that to happen again? We lost
a number of Senators. You don't want that to happen.
So, what you want is a candidate leading the Republican Party on a national
scale that can win, that can work with and help to elect Republican candidates
1817
