April 28
[377]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
and when we arrived rather late last night, there was a tremendous crowd. You
could feel the hospitality, and it's delightful to see such a big turnout here this
morning, just about 96 hours before countdown begins.
But in the meantime, we have the outstanding leadership of John Tower here
in the State of Texas to give all of the volunteer workers like yourselves an oppor-
tunity to go out and do what all of us can to make sure that when the polls
close on Saturday, that we will do very well. And I get a feeling that although
we may be the underdog, we can win on Saturday if we all do the job.
As I met all of you, I ran into several county chairmen. I know a little bit about
working in the precincts and working in an organization, and I thank all of the
people who have over the years undertaken those responsibilities because that's
the hard, almost unrecognized area for people who believe in a philosophy, who
believe in a person. So, I thank those who have done this in the past and who are
doing it at the present time.
What I would like to do this morning is just give you some selling points as
you talk to your friends, as you talk to those people who you call from the phone
banks or from your own residence, as you do the other things that are awfully
necessary and essential between now and Saturday. First, if you go back just 20
or 21 months and find where we were at the time I became President, we were
in a period of inflation of 12 to 14 percent. We have cut that so that for the first
3 months of this year it's under 3 percent, and that's progress by any standard.
Shortly after I became President, we fell down into the worst economic reces-
sion this country has had for 40 years. There were many quick fixers in the
Congress-not John Tower. He had a lot more sense than that. But anyhow,
there were those that told us we should load up the Federal payroll, that we
should just spend money like the machines couldn't run fast enough.
We decided there was a faster course that said the best way to solve our eco-
nomic problem was to get the private sector of America to provide the jobs.
That's where five out of six jobs in this country are anyhow.
And so, we didn't panic. We had a steady, we had a constructive course, and
the net result is from the depths of the depression-or recession, I should say—
about 12 months ago, we have added 2,600,000 jobs in America, and we now
have more people employed in the United States today than in the history of the
country. That's a good program.
Now, I have heard from some of my Democratic friends that they are claim-
ing credit for all this progress. [Laughter] Well, I think this administration,
with my leadership and with the help of people like John Tower, we have
had the right course, and we can claim credit for the significant success in re-
1249
