June 6
[566]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
THE PRESIDENT. I think there are some in both parties.
Q. That would be Mr. Reagan in your party because he is the only other
candidate, I gather?
The President. I will let the record speak for itself.
Q. Aren't you getting a little tougher on Governor Reagan as you go along
on this trip?
THE PRESIDENT. Yesterday, Helen [Helen Thomas, United Press Interna-
tional], I was very kind and generous.
Q. How, what changed your mind?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we have not changed significantly. We will just let the
record speak for itself.
PRESS SECRETARY NESSEN. We ought to have some Ohio reporters ask
questions.
THE PRESIDENT. I thought I saw some good-looking people out there—
[laughter]—not some old, tired faces. [Laughter]
Q. President Ford, this morning Mr. Reagan-he left about 6 hours before
you arrived he made reference to an ad in which your camp apparently
stigmatizes him as a warmonger. He said you ought to fire the man who wrote
the ad, and if you don't it is an indication that you approve of that type of
campaigning. Do you have any reaction?
THE PRESIDENT. The President Ford Committee approved the ad. I have faith
that they set the record straight as it is. The record is, of course, that my Republi-
can opponent did indicate that he would think about stationing American
military forces in Rhodesia. That's the record. The Ford administration does
not believe that there is any need and necessity, any requirement for any U.S.
military personnel in southern Africa. That's the record. As I understand it,
that radio short set the record straight. It is a fact.
Q. Would you withdraw the ad, Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT. This is a decision by the President Ford Committee. But if
you speak the facts, I think the American people ought to hear them.
Q. In other words, you are not going to withdraw it?
THE PRESIDENT. I will let that decision be made by the President Ford Com-
mittee. But if you say the facts, the American people want to hear it, I would
think.
Q. Mr. President, our mayor is supporting you because of your position on
Federal revenue sharing, which is greatly different than Governor Reagan's.
Can you be specific on what we have to look forward to?
THE PRESIDENT. There is a significant difference between my Federal revenue
1815
