April 23
[362]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
think make sense, and those are the kinds of tax reforms that, in my opinion, the
Congress ought to enact.
Q. Would you not agree then with dropping all deductions and just having
where you pay just a certain percentage of your income in taxes so everyone pays,
say, 8 percent, or something like that, of their income, or are you against that
proposal?
The President. I am categorically against that proposal, and I can tell you
very simply why. In the first place, I know from 25 years experience in the Con-
gress that Congress won't pass it. You can argue about it in theory, but let me
tell you—President Johnson recommended that approach about 8 or 9 years
ago and the approach was you do away with all exemptions, all deductions, you
just handle it that way. Let me tell you what happened as a practical matter.
Now, some people say all those things are loopholes, but I think we found
out in Congress that what is somebody's loophole is some other person's oppo-
site reaction. So, when Mr. Johnson made this recommendation, every educa-
tional institution—colleges, universities—were up in arms because they get a
lot of their income from these deductions which are available under our Federal
income tax.
Then every person who had a mortgage on their house who was paying inter-
est—and that interest payment is deductible under your Federal income tax-
all of the homeowners, and I can't tell you how many millions of those there
are, didn't want that taken away from them. So, you can argue in theory that if
you could just do away with all exemptions, all of this and all of that and give a
flat rate, that maybe that would be the best answer. But I think in each case every
one of those present provisions in law were put in there for a good purpose.
We did that for people buying a home because we wanted to stimulate the home-
building industry. We think—or I think, anyhow-that more people who own
homes, the better America will be.
So, on the basis of equity and practicality, I just don't think you are ever going
to get to that kind of approach that you are suggesting. On paper-in theory it
looks good, but it just won't work.
GENERAL CHAPPIE JAMES
[5.] Q. Mr. President, I am president of the student body, Columbia High
School. I would like to know what exactly the situation on the NORAD [North
American Air Defense Command] commander and first black four-star Air
Force General Chappie James is.
1199
