May 22
[505]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
in the field of education. We miss Edith Green in Washington. I miss her, as
President of the United States, and the quality of the Congress suffers because of
her return to Portland.
Edith, it is a great privilege to see you, and I thank you for your very generous
and very kind remarks.
Not surprisingly, I would like to take this occasion to talk somewhat seriously
about foreign policy—not the Truman or Eisenhower or Ford policy, nor the
Acheson, or Dulles or Kissinger policy, but the overall foreign policy of these
United States of America.
That is one of the things we wrote the Constitution to better manage, and I
am entrusted at this time with the conduct of our relations with other countries.
We cannot have 535 elected officials and as many more candidates making the
critical foreign policy decisions that arise daily and sometimes hourly, though
there is no law against anybody criticizing them, as I have discovered along with
my predecessors. [Laughter]
Domestic political tides ebb and flow, but foreign policy is a continuous
stream. Its course is affected by changes in elective officials, but it is mainly
formed from our geography, our ancestral ties, our natural resources and eco-
nomic needs, and above all, the common principles and beliefs on which our
Nation was founded 200 years ago.
Hard-nosed Yankee traders and persuasive Southern planters we were then,
but our foreign policy was never the cynical, cold-blooded calculations of our
rivals, past or present. Americans have always looked outward, as at home, with
generous measure of idealism.
American foreign policy has been shaped not only by the realities of an im-
perfect world order and by events that we cannot control, but also by certain
truths we believe-inalienable rights such as freedom and justice, self-determina-
tion, and the duty of the strong towards the weak, and the prosperous towards
the poor. As we have matured and grown more mighty, we have learned some
hard lessons in world affairs-that we cannot force freedom on the unwilling,
that we cannot police every distant corner or fill every empty bowl.
We have made mistakes. We have been disillusioned. But we have never
wholly abandoned Jefferson's decent respect for the opinions of mankind or
Lincoln's faith that right does make might or Eisenhower's that freedom today
is indivisible. Thus, our foreign policy today is a mixture of the principles that
unite us and make us the hope of freedom for others, and the practical counsel
of George Washington that the best way to preserve peace is to be prepared
for war. Peace through strength is neither a new policy nor a bad one.
1645
