April 30
[406]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
QUESTIONS
FEDERAL ASSISTANCE FOR PRIVATE EDUCATION
[1.] Q. Mr. President, I am a student from Abilene Christian University,
and I was wondering how you feel about Federal funding of private institutions?
THE PRESIDENT. That is a question I have been concerned about for a long, long
time. And I am glad to report to you that for a number of years it has been my
deep concern and belief that private schools from primary to secondary to
higher education ought to have a way in which they can receive contributions
and donations without the harm and detriment of Federal taxation.
It has been my belief that it is good for the public school systems to have
competition in the primary, the elementary, and the higher education fields of
education. Competition in education is just as good as it is in politics, business
and professions and otherwise.
So, we ought to, under our tax laws, make it as easy as possible for individuals
to contribute as generously as they can to the support of private education.
PANAMA CANAL NEGOTIATIONS
[2.] Q. President Ford, I am one of the four delegates pledged to you
tomorrow.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you.
Q. So many people have become concerned, I think due to the publicity,
about the possibility of our losing or giving away the Panama Canal. Can you
enlighten us on this?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me start out by saying, under no circumstances will I ever
do away with our right, our authority, our national defense usability of the
Panama Canal. You can start with that, period.
But let me say that in 1964, if your mind will go back to that time, we had
a riot in Panama. Twenty Panamanians were killed. The National Guard and
other military forces got involved, and four Americans were killed.
At that time, a great Texan, President Lyndon Johnson, decided that we
ought to negotiate rather than fight, it would be better to talk rather than to
have riots. And the net result was that those negotiations started, they have
continued from 1965 to the present time, and what we are seeking to do is to
establish a treaty of an extended period of time, 50 years, well into the next
century, and in that treaty, during the period of that treaty, we would have
the authority and the right to maintain, to operate, and to defend that canal
which, in effect, means for the remainder of the canal's useful economic lifetime.
1389
