April 27
[368]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
governments. This is because most dangerous narcotics are produced in foreign
countries. Thus, our capability to deal with supplies of drugs available in the
United States depends largely on the interest and capability of foreign govern-
ments in controlling the production and shipment of illicit drugs.
Many countries still see drug abuse as primarily an American problem and
are unaware of the extent to which the problem is truly global in scope. Poorer
nations find it difficult to justify the allocation of scarce resources to deal with
drug abuse in the face of many other pressing needs. Also, some opium produc-
ing countries lack effective control over, or access to, growing areas within their
boundaries and, thus, their efforts in drug control programs are made more
difficult.
Still, we have been reasonably successful in enlisting the cooperation of foreign
governments. We must now intensify diplomatic efforts at all levels in order to
encourage the greatest possible commitment from other governments to this
international problem. We must continue to provide technical and equipment
assistance through cooperative enforcement efforts with U.S. agents stationed
overseas, all aimed at strengthening drug control organizations within foreign
countries. And we must continue to participate in building institutions and a
system of international treaties which can provide a legal framework for an in-
ternational response to this international problem.
I have spoken personally to Presidents Echeverria of Mexico and Lopez-
Michelsen of Colombia and with Prime Minister Demirel of Turkey in an effort
to strengthen cooperation among all nations involved in the fight against illicit
drug traffic. I intend to continue to urge foreign leaders to increase their efforts
in this area. Attorney General Levi has recently discussed drug control problems
with the Attorney General of Mexico and Secretary of State Kissinger has dis-
cussed narcotic control efforts with senior officials in Latin America on his recent
trip there. I have asked both of them, as well as our Ambassador to the United
Nations, William Scranton, to continue to expand these important discussions.
The reactions of the governments which we have approached have been posi-
tive—there is a genuine and healthy air of mutual concern and cooperation be-
tween our countries and I am confident that our joint efforts will bring about a
real reduction in drug trafficking into the United States.
One recent example of the new awareness and commitment of foreign gov-
ernments to this struggle deserves special mention. President Echeverria has writ-
ten to inform me of his intention to set up a cabinet level commission to coordi-
nate all law enforcement and drug treatment programs within Mexico and to
1223
