[461]
May 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
ration of faith and trust in the Presidency itself. As I did not seek this office,
neither shall I shirk it.
I have always believed that truth is the glue that holds government together.
I will tell the truth to the American people as I see it-promising no more than
I can deliver and delivering everything that I promise.
The executive branch of the Federal Government will be as honest, as open,
and as candid as I can make it, and so will my campaign for the high office that
I have the honor to hold. I run for President as I ran successfully 13 times in
Michigan on my record of performance-peace, prosperity, and trust are my
record of performance in the nearly 2 years since I became President. The rea-
son I am in this race to stay is to ensure peace, prosperity, and trust for the future.
The future really doesn't belong to us, it belongs to those who come after us.
As we look back over 200 years as a nation, there is one thread that runs all the
way through our history. We Americans come from many lands, many races,
and many religions. Our ancestors came here, or we came here to find freedom
and justice, to escape oppression, to make new lives. What do we all have in
common? We know this-life will be better for our children than it was for us.
Why do we know this? Because life for us has been better than it was for our
parents. That has been true for every generation of Americans, and it will con-
tinue to be true as long as we make it true.
I see an America once again tested in adversity-more sure of what we want
to be and what we want our Nation to be or to become. I see an America cer-
tain, once again, that life will be better for our children than it was for us,
and our children are also certain that their heads and hands and hearts can
help make it so.
I see a strong and confident America, secure in a strength that cannot alone
be counted in megatons and rejoicing in riches that cannot be eroded by in-
flation or taxation.
I see an America where life is valued for its quality as well as for its com-
fort, where the individual is inviolate in his constitutional rights, and where
the government serves and the people rule.
Thank you very, very much.
Bill.
QUESTIONS
INCREASED ENERGY SUPPLIES
GOVERNOR MILLIKEN. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
I have a series of questions which have been addressed to you by members of
the Economic Club, and I will start reading those questions immediately.
1540
