April 22
[352]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
FEDERAL REVENUE SHARING PROGRAM
[11.] Q. Mr. President, I am a member of the City-County Council of Indian-
apolis, Indiana. Many of us, and I am sure many councilmen across the land, are
concerned about the future of Federal revenue sharing. I am concerned about
your position now and what your position might be in 1977 and the 3 following
years? Thank you.
The President. Well, I was one of the original sponsors of revenue sharing
back in 1972, and I did all I could to get the legislation through the Congress at
that time, which we did for a 5-year period. That legislation now expires Decem-
ber 31, 1976, and almost a year ago I recommended to the Congress the extension
of that program for a 54-year period with a $150 million growth, in addition,
each year.
Now, so far the Congress has not acted. A committee in the House of Repre-
sentatives has approved a modified program. We are doing all we can at the
White House to get the Congress to approve that legislation. But I think the
best pressure to get the legislation has to come from Indianapolis and Grand
Rapids and San Francisco, from the people who know that if that program does
not go through—as I recall, the State of Indiana as a whole gets in the 5-year
period about $1 billion, two-thirds of it to cities and towns and counties, one-
third to the State-—and if that program is not extended, cities, counties, towns,
and the State of Indiana will either have to cut back services or will have to
increase taxes. It is just that simple.
So, if you are interested in preserving services or interested in not having an
increase in taxes, then you ought to help us get the Members of Congress to
move on this legislation, and I will be for it in '77 just like I was in '72 and ’76.
FEDERAL AID TO EDUCATION
[12.] Q. Mr. President, I, too, will be participating in the student congress
this Saturday, and my bill involves the Federal role in education. I was wonder-
ing, in view of the fact that high school graduates' scores on tests to enter college
have been declining, if you would be supporting any Federal programs involv-
ing education?
THE PRESIDENT. I submitted to the Congress in January of this year a revised
Federal aid to education program that would do away with 26 categorical grant
programs and give the same amount of money with a $200 million or $300 mil-
lion bonus, but do it in what we call a block grant approach.
In other words, the Federal Government would give the money to the State
and to the local units of government without a requirement of matching, and
1157
