[459]
May 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
ing the desirability and feasibility of transferring ERDA's defense-related pro-
grams to the Department of Defense or other federal agencies. The recommenda-
tions of the Secretary of Defense and the Administrator of the Energy Research
and Development Administration are also included with the report.
I agree with the judgments of the Administrator and the Secretary and sup-
port their recommendations that ERDA retain its current responsibilities for
funding and management of the defense-related programs. I have noted the
recommendations with respect to the establishment of separate budget plan-
ning ceilings for ERDA energy and defense-related activities. I will consider
these recommendations in developing my future budgets.
I agree with the recommendations of the Administrator and the Secretary
that the Department of Defense should revise its nuclear weapons budget and
cost reporting submissions to Congress to specify separately the ERDA costs
associated with each new nuclear weapon or nuclear weapons system.
This segregation of costs will make clear to the Congress and to the public
the total requirements for national defense purposes. I also agree that it is de-
sirable to review the funding and management arrangements for the ERDA
defense-related programs after two or three years of experience to see whether
additional changes should be considered.
The White House,
May 12, 1976.
NOTE: The report is entitled "Funding and Man-
agement Alternatives for ERDA Military Application
and Restricted Data Function-January 1976" (105
GERALD R. FORD
pp.. together with an executive summars and ap-
pendixes A 1: A, B, C, classifed
460
Exchange With Reporters on Arrival at Detroit, Michigan.
May 12, 1976
LET ME make a statement or two, and then I'll take several questions. First,
I wish to thank Pete and Ranny and Bill McLaughlin. I also wish to thank
Bob Griffin and the Republican delegation.
I have spent most of my life in the great State of Michigan. I got my educa-
tion here. I got started in politics here. The State of Michigan has been very,
very good to me, and during the 21 months that I have been the President of
the United States, I have sought to justify their faith in what they gave me
1532
