May 5
[427]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
strength and so much richness to our society. Working together, we can achieve
these goals, and I think today's conference is a very good start.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:34 a.m. in the
Rose Garden at the White House to representatives
of ethnic organizations attending the conference.
In his opening remarks, he referred to Mayors
Vincent Cianci of Providence, R.I., and Ralph J. Perk
of Cleveland, Ohio, and Monsignor Geno C. Baroni,
chairman of the Catholic Conference on Ethnic and
Neighborhood Affairs and president of the National
Center for Urban Ethnic Affairs.
427
Exchange With Reporters Following Indiana, Georgia, and
Alabama Primary Election Results. May 5, 1976
I AM glad to be here on May 5 and to have an opportunity to respond to any
of your questions. I suspect you may have some.
REPORTER. What is your reaction to the three losses ?
The President. Naturally, I am disappointed. We had hoped to do better.
But let me say this very strongly: I am going to Kansas City, I am going to
win in Kansas City, and we expect to win in November.
Q. Mr. President, you are reassessing your strategy, we're told. What sorts of
things do you have in mind?
The President. I think that's a matter that Rogers Morton and the people
at the PFC will basically undertake. They will keep me apprised, but I think
that's their basic responsibility. And we'll work with them, but they have the
responsibility.
Q. Mr. President, you're generally a picture of confidence. Has your con-
fidence been shaken by this string of losses?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think my confidence has been harmed one bit. As I
said a moment ago, I'm going to Kansas City, I expect to win in Kansas City,
and I fully intend to be elected on November 2.
Q. Well, what's gone wrong?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, that's something that Rogers Morton and the others
will assess. I believe that we have a good program. We have straightened out
the economy; we are on our way to real progress as far as prosperity is con-
cerned. We have gotten ourselves straightened out as far as foreign policy is
concerned. We are out of the war in Vietnam. We are making headway around
the world. We have restored confidence and integrity in the White House. So
our job, apparently, is to do a better job of selling it, and we intend to do it.
1469
