May 7
[438]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
national security is important to us but which are not themselves able to bear the
full cost of their own defense. In the case of advisory groups, termination of
missions by legislative fiat would impair close and long-standing military rela-
tionships with important allies. Moreover, such termination is inconsistent with
increasing Congressional demands for the kind of information about and con-
trol over arms sales which these groups now provide. Such provisions would
insert Congress deeply into the details of specific country programs, a role which
Congress has neither the information nor the organizational structure to play.
I particularly regret that, notwithstanding the spirit of genuine cooperation
between the Legislative and Executive Branches that has characterized the delib-
erations on this legislation, we have been unable to overcome the major policy
differences that exist.
In disapproving this bill, I act as any President would, and must, to retain
the ability to function as the foreign policy leader and spokesman of the Nation.
In world affairs today, America can have only one foreign policy. Moreover, that
foreign policy must be certain, clear and consistent. Foreign governments must
know that they can treat with the President on foreign policy matters, and that
when he speaks within his authority, they can rely upon his words.
Accordingly, I must veto the bill.
The White House,
May 7, 1976.
438
GERALD R. FORD
Remarks on Submitting Proposed Legislation To Provide
Financial Assistance for the 1980 Winter Olympic Games.
May 7, 1976
FIRST, I wish to extend my very warm welcome to all of you who are here
today—the representatives of the Lake Placid Organizing Committee; Philip
Krumm, president of the United States Olympic Committee; Gerald Zornow,
Chairman of the President's Commission on Olympic Sports, and other com-
missioners of that body; distinguished Congressmen are also here; Gene Cowan
of ABC, whose spectacular television coverage of the Olympics brought the thrill
of victory and the agony of defeat right into the living room for myself and mil-
lions and millions of other Americans who were watching those spectacular
1485
