321]
April 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
because more people would be qualifying and because of escalation clauses, there
would be greater expenditures. There would be a growth in Federal spending
from June 30 of this year to June 30 of next year of $55 billion without a change
in the law. That is about 11 percent growth in Federal spending, and that was
the case in every fiscal year on the average for a period of 10 years.
Now what we did was to say we can't afford that growth, and we cut it in
half from 11 percent to 5 percent. But believe me, it wasn't easy. A lot of things
that had been going along and along and along got cut, and a few got elimi-
nated. But I think we are on the right track. And I might add parenthetically,
since taking office in August of 1974, I have had the privilege of vetoing 47
bills. In fact, number four bit the dust yesterday. But the net result of 4% of those
vetoes is that where 39 of them have been sustained by the Congress, we have
saved the taxpayers $13 billion.
Now, if we can keep that kind of pressure on and hold Federal spending
down, we can balance the Federal budget in fiscal year 1979, We can have
another major tax cut the same year, in addition to the one that I recommended.
take effect July 1 of this year. And we can get the Government out of the
private money market, further casing pressure on interest rates in getting the
Federal treasury out of competition with the private sector. We can help the
private sector expand. We can pull in the reins of the Federal Government for a
long, overdue change.
These are some of our economic plans for the future. For the present, I can
say to you with confidence, without any hesitation or qualification, we are on
the road to a new and lasting prosperity in the United States, and we are not
about to be sidetracked now by any quick fixes or gimmicks sent down to the
Oval Office from the Congress in 1976.
The success of our economic policies proves once agam that it doesn't take
a huge government bureaucracy to solve every problem in America. We must
never forget one very fundamental truth-that a government big enough to
give us everything we want is a government big enough to take from us every-
thing we have.
To guard against that danger of ever-increasing control by the Federal Gov-
ernment, I proposed a 5 year 9 month extension of what we call general revenue
sharing, a program that has worked very well for the last 4 years. And your
good mayor can give you the specifics as to the impact here in Dallas, and you
county officials can do the same, and so can your State officials.
If there is one thing that the Federal Government is good at, it is collecting
taxes-[laughter--as we will all learn once again in about 6 days. If there is
1042
