[392]
April 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
ably 50 years. We would have the right to maintain, to operate, and to defend
that canal, which is more or less the expected economic utilization lifetime of
that canal.
Now, my friend and my opponent in this Republican primary says—I have
forgotten the word—but anyhow, in effect what he says, we should terminate
negotiations that have been going on for 12 years in a responsible way. I can
assure you that if those negotiations are terminated, you will have a resumption
of rioting, unquestioned additional bloodshed. You will have a very serious
problem maintaining the operation capability of that canal because it is easily
subject to sabotage, so you will have to increase the U.S. Army contingent down
there which is now 10,000 by at least another 10,000 and maybe another 20,000.
And in the interim, you will have 26 Latin and South American neighbors and
309 million Latin and South Americans angry, antagonistic against the United
States, all in this hemisphere. I think we ought to carry on those negotiations
responsibly as we are doing. And we are going to maintain, as long as I am
President, the necessary responsibility, the necessary influence to make sure that
we don't give away one thing involving our national security.
U.S. INTERNATIONAL FOOD POLICY
[5.] Q. Hello, Mr. Ford. The problem of overpopulation and world hun-
ger is no longer theoretical speculation but is an unfortunate reality. This coun-
try consumes a disproportionate amount of the world's food because we are
fortunate enough to have productive, fruitful lands where other countries aren't
so lucky.
If there is going to be a concerted effort to prevent millions of people from
starving, we're going to have to be willing to give up some of our good fortune
and spread it around. What should this country's responsibility be?
THE PRESIDENT. First, let me say that the United States of America is fortunate
in more than having good land. We have got the most productive farmers in the
history of mankind. And we have got the greatest economic system in the his-
tory of mankind. We have less than 6 percent of the population, and we pro-
duce, as I recall, some 30 percent of the food throughout the globe.
Now, I don't think that—well, let me just say I'm not a doomsayer. I have
heard these predictions, these forecasts, these pessimists come up and say Amer-
ica and the world, we can't make it for another 50 years; I don't believe that.
I am affirmative enough about the ingenuity and the drive and all the other
things in this country to believe that we will surmount the problems in 10 years,
in 20 years, in 30 years, just as well as our forefathers have in the past.
1330
