May 2
[415]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
and safeguarding of the rights of the innocent victims of crime; and that is the
watchword of this administration.
The peace that America enjoys internationally and the progress and the
prosperity that we are working for at home will profit us very little unless we
ensure for ourselves the most basic blessings of liberty, including the ability to
walk in our own streets, raise our own families, and live our own lives in safety.
We are at peace abroad for the first time in many, many years, and now we
must concentrate on restoring domestic tranquility to our cities and to our sub-
urbs. This is a task befitting our very, very best efforts during this historic year,
our Bicentennial. For the wisdom our our Founding Fathers was that: Without
peace there can be no true progress and without respect for the law we can have
no true freedom.
Thank you very much. I'm ready for the first question.
QUESTIONS
PANAMA CANAL NEGOTIATIONS
[1.] Q. I'm a resident of Fort Wayne. And with your permission I'd like
to break this question into three parts for clarity, all right?
THE PRESIDENT. Sure. [Laughter]
Q. According to the information that I understand from the news media,
you are willing to give concessions considerably in the coming negotiations on
Panama.
THE PRESIDENT. Do you want me to answer that now?
Q. Well, we could go through.
The President. Why don't you give me all three, and I will answer them
simultaneously.
Q. All right. [Laughter] Go ahead.
Recently, this last week, we had a man, by name, it's Major Wright, who
had been stationed in the Canal Zone for years. And from the information I
got from him, I think we all got from him, was the fact that as far as South
America is concerned, Brazil is the largest nation and the President of Brazil
favors our continuing holding the canal; also, that we are the buyers of 80 per-
cent of Panama's output. Is this information correct?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me first say that I will tell you what my views are on the
negotiations concerning the Panama Canal. But I was very interested this after-
1411
