[432]
May 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
432
Remarks at a Meeting With Administration Officials To
Discuss the Social Security Trust Fund. May 6, 1976
WHILE the press is here, I think it might be appropriate to point out to them
the reason for this meeting.
As everybody knows, I submitted to the Congress a very constructive pro-
posal for the purpose of maintaining the financial integrity of the social security
trust fund. This was submitted at the time of our budget or economic program,
at the time of the State of the Union and, unfortunately, it appears that the
Congress is going to fail to recognize the problem and tragically fail to do any
thing to solve the problem.
This concerns me very greatly, because we have 32 million individuals, most
of them older, who are depending upon the financial soundness of the trust
fund. And we have literally millions and millions more who are paying into
the trust fund, who are counting on the financial integrity of that fund.
This administration feels an obligation to protect the investment of those
who are retired and those who are counting on retirement. The purpose of this
meeting is for me to get the up-to-date information from the responsible
people in the executive branch who, I'm sure, are likewise concerned, as I am,
about the current situation.
The Congress cannot fail the older people and others who are either on re-
tirement or about to retire. We expect some action. They cannot fail to respond
to this very important and, I think, critical need.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:10 a.m. in the
Cabinet Room at the White House.
The meeting was attended by David Mathews,
Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare; W. J.
Usery, Jr., Secretary of Labor; James A. Baker III,
Under Secretary of Commerce; George H. Dixon.
Deputy Secretary of the Treasury Ron Davis. Aunt-
ant to the Commissioner of the Social Security Ad-
ministration; and Wilham A. Morrill, Assistant
Secretary for Policy, Department of Health, Educa-
tion, and Welfare
433
Statement Urging Congressional Action on Proposed Payroll Tax
Increase for the Social Security Trust Fund.
May 6, 1976
I HAVE today directed the Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare to seek
prompt congressional action on my legislative proposal to maintain the fiscal
integrity of our social security trust fund.
1476
