[534]
May 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
know to play the ballgame. And we're going to continue that for the next 4
years with your help, and I appreciate it very, very much.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:15 p.m. after
meeting with Ohio State Senate and House Repub
lican members in the Governor's Cabinet Room at
the capitol building. In his opening remarks, he re-
ferred to Governor James A. Rhodes of Ohio,
Barbara Nicklaus, wite of professional golfer Jack
Nicklaus, and Woods Hayes, head coach of the
Ohio State University football team.
535
The President's News Conference of
May 26, 1976
THE PRESIDENT. Good evening. Won't you please sit down. Before turning to
your questions, I have a brief statement.
REQUEST FOR CONGRESSIONAL ACTION ON PROPOSED Legislation
[1] Early next week the Congress will return from its Memorial Day recess.
For many Americans the summer will have officially begun, and time for vaca-
tion will be at hand. However, it is extremely important this not become a
vacation for the Congress. There is an immense amount of work piling up on
the congressional calendar, and the country needs-and deserves-prompt legis-
lative action in a number of important areas.
The temporary tax cut enacted last year will expire at the end of June. That
tax cut must be extended. I have recommended that the Congress not only ex-
tend the tax cut permanently but increase by some $10 billion a tax cut in the
future. Among the benefits the taxpayers would receive under my proposal is
an increase in the personal exemption from $750 per individual to $1,000 per
person. This will be enough to permit many people to catch up on their bills
and begin saving for the future. When we cut taxes, we must also cut Federal
spending.
The Congress has not yet shown discipline enough to hold the line on Fed-
eral spending. That's why I vetoed so many big spending bills, and my vetoes
so far have saved the taxpayer some $13 billion. I will continue to use my
veto until the Congress gets the message and Federal spending is brought
under control.
Another major legislative item urgently awaiting congressional action is the
reenactment of Federal revenue sharing. There has already been an inexcusably
1744
