April 21
[349]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
We are seeking to achieve new efficiencies across the board-better ways to
carry out our military missions that will not only save taxpayers $2,800 million
for the next fiscal year but will also improve our readiness capability of the
Army, the Navy, the Air Force, and Marines.
This is a program designed to ensure that America will never become num-
ber two in military power. It is a sound investment in our future, and I intend
to see it through—this year, next year, right through to the end of this decade.
I have spoken of our military strength. Let us never forget that our strength
will be meaningful only if it is matched by our resolve—our resolve to keep the
peace, our resolve to preserve our precious freedom.
No one should mistake our internal debates as a weakening of our inten-
tion to protect our interests and to live up to our obligations to our friends. The
United States will not only remain secure in its power but I assure you we shall
not hesitate to use that power when it must be used in our national interest.
Even as we are determined in our defense, we shall also be determined in our
efforts to reduce the potential of a nuclear holocaust. We are continuing the
strategic arms limitation talks with the Soviet Union for the simple but very
good reason that these negotiations offer the best hope for sanity in superpower
relations. Ever since the beginning of serious arms negotiations with the Rus-
sians years and years ago, there have been political pressures either to speed up
or to slow down the negotiations, and those pressures continue today. Instead,
I have chosen a steady but persistent course based on a realistic appreciation of
our national interests. Those interests do not lie in an uncontrolled nuclear arms
race, but in maintaining an equitable strategic balance at the lowest possible
level.
Those who argue that SALT talks jeopardize the security of the United
States are badly mistaken. In Vladivostok, we began negotiating an agreement
which, if successfully completed, will place equal ceilings on missiles, heavy
bombers, and multi-headed warheads.
There are still many important issues to be resolved in the SALT talks. I do
not know at this time whether we will succeed, but under no circumstances will
we be stampeded by arbitrary deadlines or demagogic political charges. We will
be guided solely by the national interests of the United States of America. If a
sound agreement is reached, of course, I will submit it to the United States Sen-
ate for ratification.
My friends, this election year is still young. There is still time to restore reason
and perspective to our debates over national security. Those who seek our
Nation's highest office have an obligation, I believe, to spell out the alternative
1143
