[415]
May 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
noon to see my good friend-I am sure he is a good friend of yours-Senator
Barry Goldwater on "Meet the Press."
I am reading from the text of what the question was and what the answer
was by Senator Goldwater. He was asked this question: “On the Panama Canal,
you raised it earlier in the program, who is right on that? Whose position do you
support, Ford or Reagan's?"
Senator Goldwater: "I have to support Ford's position on it, and I think
Reagan would, too, if he knew more about it." [Laughter]
But to answer the second question, the nation of Brazil does not support the
position of the United States holding, as it is the situation down there in the
Panama. As a matter of fact, the Government of Brazil is standing with the
Panamanian Government, and that's also the inference here in Senator Gold-
water's statement where he supports me and is opposed to Governor Reagan.
Q. What do you plan to do with the Panama Canal if you are elected Presi-
dent? [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Well, let me tell you what we are doing. In the first place,
in 1964 there were very serious riots in Panama; 24 people were killed, 20 Pana-
manians, and 4 Americans. And following that riot, the then President of the
United States, Lyndon Johnson, undertook negotiations with the Government
of Panama. And those negotiations have continued under President Johnson
and then under President Nixon and now under my administration.
And what are we trying to do? We are trying to establish a long, long-term
treaty of about 50 years that would guarantee to the United States the right to
defend, to maintain, and to operate that canal.
All the experts that I have talked to tell me that the economic usability of
the canal is no longer than 50 years. In fact, it is getting less and less valuable as
a means of transportation today than it was 5 or 10 years ago. So, what we are
trying to do is to make sure that during the economic lifetime of the canal,
we have an absolute control over it.
Now, let me just add one other point. The people who say we should break
off negotiations have to be very realistic-that if those negotiations are broken
off, you will find that those riots will come back. We will have not one but
many, and you will inevitably have bloodshed.
Number two, you will antagonize 25 nations in South America, including
Brazil, and that is about 309 million people.
And in order to adequately defend the canal if negotiations are broken off,
you will find that the United States, instead of having 10,000 GI's down there
1412
