1455]
May 11
Public Papers of the Presidents
(Nations) peacekeeping activities and efforts in the Middle East, the Congo, as
well as Cyprus.
As a member of the European Community, Denmark enhances contacts
between the Community and the United States. The United States does attach
a very great importance to our relationship with Denmark, and I note that these
relations are excellent at the present time, and I am confident that those rela-
tions will continue. We will understand each other's views on various interna-
tional problems, on peace, security, and economic progress.
As President, I welcome the outstanding contributions which the Danish
Government, the Danish Bicentennial Committee, and the Danish people are
making to the observance of our 200th anniversary. In addition to the visit of
Your Majesty and His Royal Highness, Danish programs for the Bicentennial
encompass a very broad range of activities in the field of music, art, education,
and history. They include the tours by the Royal Danish Ballet and the Copen-
hagen Boys' Choir, exhibits, presentations of books and musical anthologies to
various American universities and conservatories, and very generous gifts to
the Kennedy Center and the Government of the Virgin Islands. All of us are
very deeply grateful for this thoughtfulness and this generosity.
Denmark perhaps is the only other country which for years has celebrated
July 4. A Danish society has met on July 4 for many, many years to reaffirm the
very friendly ties between Denmark and the United States.
Your Majesty, Your Royal Highness, once again we bid you a sincere and
very hearty welcome.
Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to join me in a toast to Her Majesty and to
His Royal Highness. May the friendship between Denmark and the United
States continue to grow and may our two nations move toward one another
on common objectives of peace, progress, and liberty for all peoples.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:35 pm. in the
State Dining Room at the White House. Queen
Margrethe responded as follows:
Mr. President, the Prince and I wish to thank
you. Mr. President, for your very kind words of
welcome and for the warm and generous reception
which you and Mrs. Ford have given us at the
White House.
Coming to Washington for the first time as I
do, I am at once attracted by the beautiful white
buildings in their peaceful setting of green lawns
and flowering trees. And it is a striking feature of
Washington that the seat of power of so vast a
country as the United States, the White House, is
not only the center of administration but also a
harming home.
Though my husband and I have both visited the
United States before, we have never been here
together, and this is yet another reason why we
have looked forward to this visit and to meeting you
and Mrs. Ford. This year is the Bentennial of the
United States and wo are happy to contribute our
congratulations on this great occasion on behalf of
the people of Denmark.
The United States, or America as we often say
in Denmark, occupies a very special place in the
imagination of my countrimin This is vividly al·
lustrated by a children's story
in verse, which first
appeared in 1930 and has been read to this very
day. It tells the story of a small Jusen, hanted bo
who has reven d bad grales at school, a scolding
from his mother for having torn his trousers, and
1526
