[532]
May 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
win Oregon, Kentucky, and Tennessee, those are three very important States.
They are different States-two border States and one Northwestern State. That
certainly indicates a clear, national potentiality that I have for winning in No-
vember. And I think that will be very encouraging to voters all over the
country.
Q. Mr. President, can you win a first ballot nomination without winning
California?
THE PRESIDENT. We think that's a possibility.
Q. Mr. President, do you think that Reagan's comments on the TVA had
anything to do with his lesser showing, less than expected, in Kentucky and
Tennessee?
THE PRESIDENT. I am not familiar with what my opponent said. I have got
some awfully important things to do, and I like to talk affirmatively, so I—
Q. The TVA is pretty important, and he could dismantle it.
THE PRESIDENT. Our best judgment is that his comments that he would at
least study the sale of the TVA might easily have had an impact in the State
of Kentucky and the State of Tennessee. As a matter of fact, it would have, I
believe, an overall impact on all of the TVA States.
Q. Mr. President, do you encourage the move here to abandon the winner-
take-all by legislative action?
THE PRESIDENT. I just read about it for the first time this morning, and I think
that's a matter that the State of California and its elected representatives ought
to decide. I didn't know about it until his morning. I read it in the paper.
Q. Mr. President, after the June 8 primaries, will you continue to travel in
some of the convention States?
THE PRESIDENT. Ann [Ann Compton, ABC News], I haven't thought about
it. We will wait and see what happens on June 8.
Q. Sir, after your trip here to California, has your assessment of how you
will do in the California primary changed at all?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, it has. I was thrilled with the good turnouts. I was ob-
viously very pleased with the enthusiasm. I think we have made some headway.
We're still an underdog, but we're going to be in this race in California for
keeps, because if we can continue the kind of momentum we have, we think
we have a good fighting chance to prevail here.
Helen [Helen Thomas, United Press International], have you forgotten your
question?
Q. No, I didn't.
THE PRESIDENT. Go ahead.
1736
