[506]
May 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
of the world's most powerful empire. We have no less need of faith than your
fathers who found no atheists in their foxholes.
The faith of our fathers is living still in America today. It will live as long as
freedom rings in this land of liberty. In the stirring words of "America," "long
may our land be bright, with freedom's holy light, protect us by thy might,
great God our king."
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:45 a.m. in the
Center for Christian Ministers Auditorium. In his
opening remarks, he referred to Dr. Joe D. Gilliam,
president of Warner Pacific College
Following his remarks, the President was pre-
sented with an honorary doctor of humane letters
degre: by Dr. Gilliam.
507
Exchange With Reporters on Arrival at Pendleton, Oregon.
May 23, 1976
I HAVE had a wonderful day and a half in Oregon, I had a great time in Med-
ford, and we had a delightful time in Portland. And now it's wonderful to be in
the sunshine here in Pendleton.
The message that I'm trying to get across here in Oregon, as well as through-
out the United States, is very direct-that in the last 21 months, under the Ford
administration, we have made a great deal of progress.
When I took office we had many, many problems. The problems were the
restoration of confidence in the government, particularly the White House. We
were faced with some very serious economic problems. We were faced, also,
with problems overseas that had to be resolved.
In the 21 months that I have been President, confidence and trust have been
restored in the White House. We have met successfully the economic problems
that included inflation of over 12 percent. We have reduced it to 3 percent or
less for 1976. We have added 3,300,000 jobs in the last 12 months-710,000 jobs
in the last month alone. We are well on the way to a surging economic pros-
perity. And I believe that during the 21 months, we have achieved the peace,
we are maintaining it, and we expect to continue it during the next 4 years.
I appreciate the very warm welcome I have had in Oregon. It has been a
delightful time, and we look forward to an optimistic result on next Tuesday.
I would be glad to answer a few questions.
REPORTER. In 1978 the moratorium ends on diverting water to the Southwest.
1658
