April 23
[356]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Now, what we are trying to do in a diplomatic way, what we are seeking to
achieve through our military capability, is to encourage other people, other na-
tions, to achieve the freedom that in many instances they do not have. And what
we are trying to do in an economic way is to bind the Western nations, such as
Britain, France, Italy, West Germany, and Japan, and any of our other allies so
that we can strengthen our economic policies, so we can work together, so we
can convince the people in those countries as well as our own people that a
free enterprise system is far better than a Communist-controlled system. And
through the meeting that we had in Rambouillet, France, with the heads of states
of those countries, we tied together our economic, our monetary, our fiscal
policies, and the net result is that the economy in the United States is going up
and the economies of most of the Western countries are likewise moving upward.
I only give that as a concerted illustration that if you have the right policies
and the right leadership, we can be and should be optimistic about the free
world, and that is the way I feel and that is the way Secretary Kissinger feels.
I have full faith in the will and the resolve of the American people and our allies.
We have met these challenges before; we will in the future.
THE B-I BOMBER
[12.] Q. Good morning, Mr. President. I would like to congratulate you on
your fine performance on NBC Saturday Night. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. For a 30-second performance, I appreciate it.
Q. I would like to ask you, I have heard Senator Barry Goldwater's view and a
couple other Senators. Do you favor support of the B-1 bomber?
THE PRESIDENT. Do I favor support of the B-1 bomber?
Q. Building it.
THE PRESIDENT. You're darn right I do. That, of course, is the bomber that will
replace the 300 to 400 to 500, B-52 bombers which are now anywhere from 20 to
25 years old, and if we are going to keep our strategic air capability strong in the
future, we must build the B-1 bomber and we are going to build it.
Thank you all very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:37 a.m. at the Van-
derburgh County Auditorium and Convention Cen-
ter.
In his opening remarks, he referred to Governor
Otis R. Bowen of Indiana, Mayor Russell G. Lloyd
of Evansville, and Rev. James Heady, pastor, Trinity
United Methodist Church of Evansville.
1181
