April 15
[342]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
341
Remarks Upon Signing Emergency Appropriations
Legislation for the National Swine Flu Immunization
Program. April 15, 1976
THE MEASURE I am about to sign represents a timely response to my request
for prompt congressional action to provide funds for a national influenza
immunization program. This program will offer every American the oppor-
tunity to be inoculated against a swine-type influenza virus.
This virus was the cause of a pandemic in 1918 and 1919 that resulted in over
half a million deaths in the United States, as well as 20 million deaths around
the world. I am gratified that the Congress could act promptly prior to its
Easter recess on a matter of great importance to every citizen.
This demonstrates quite clearly the Congress can confront rapidly and effec-
tively the issues that are important to all of us. The Secretary of HEW, David
Mathews, and his Department are moving ahead rapidly to implement the
program objectives.
We will mobilize all the necessary national resources to insure that we achieve
our goal of making the influenza vaccine available to every American by the
end of the year. And I thank the Congress, and I thank the Department of
HEW for helping in this very important project.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:50 p.m. in the Oval Office at the White House.
342
Statement About Emergency Appropriations Legislation
for the National Swine Flu Immunization
Program. April 15, 1976
I AM gratified by the rapid response on this crucial measure by the Congress
prior to their Easter recess. The provisions for preventive health activities and
summer youth employment programs are identical to my request.
The special supplemental appropriations contained in this measure are essen-
tial for implementation of the national influenza immunization program.
This program is designed to protect Americans against a swine-type strain of
virus which was responsible for thousands of deaths in the United States during
1918-19.
1131
