[403]
April 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
months of 1976 was under 3 percent. That's a 75-percent reduction in the rate
of inflation, and that's a darned good record, and we ought to be proud of it.
If you will recollect, just about a year ago today the unemployment was high,
employment was falling, but in the last 12 months, we have increased employ-
ment in this country by 2,600,000 people. The net result was for the month of
March, we had an employment record of 86,700,000. More people were gain-
fully employed in the United States in the month of March than at any time in
the history of the United States. That is not a bad record, either.
Probably the most significant factor as we take a look at what we are trying to
do to get this economy on a healthy, permanent basis—a year ago the consumer
confidence in America was at an almost alltime low, but because we had some
sound policies, because we pursued them with persistence and diligence, today
the consumer confidence is more than double what it was a year ago.
In other words, people are now beginning to feel that they have confidence
in investing in a new car, a new home, or investing in America, period. This is
the basic reason why I am absolutely confident that this movement in the econ-
omy is all for the plus and it is going to be a sound, constructive economy, not
just one of these peaks and valleys.
So, we can say with confidence that the Ford administration's policies were
right. We stood off the Congress when they wanted to load up the Federal pay-
roll, when they wanted to spend more and more money. We have vetoed 48
bills, they sustained 39, and the net result is we have saved the taxpayers of this
country $13 billion. That is not a bad record, either.
Let me indicate also that I think this administration can be given a very
high mark for decisive action. First, we had the courage as well as the wisdom
to veto the so-called common situs picketing bill, and that is progress, in my
judgment. Then I think it is well to point out when we were faced with a
challenge by a nation that seized one of our merchant vessels just about a year
ago, the Mayaguez, this administration took firm, decisive action and we
recaptured the Mayaguez as any good, strong country ought to.
So, I think we are on the right track both domestically and internationally.
And I think we can go out in good conscience and sell what we have done and
what we will do for the next 4 years.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:42 p.m. in the ball-
room at the Hilton Inn. In his opening remarks, he
referred to Deana Väck, president of the Texas Tech
Young Republicans.
1380
