May 7
[441]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
in this country, up to a total of 87,400,000—by far, the most employed in the
history of the United States.
So, I think a person can talk to his neighbor, to his partner, to his business
associates, to anybody, and say that in the 21 months, we have taken this country
through a tough, tough time by the right policies, by keeping our cool, beating
the Congress over its head with 40 vetoes that have been sustained, where we
have saved over $13 billion.
It wasn't easy, believe me. We had a lot of advice from all sources saying that,
"Do what the Congress wants you to do, spend a lot more money, do this and do
that." It wasn't right; we didn't do it. And I think we are now in the process
where we can say with pride that we are on the right track and we are going
in the right direction. To summarize it, everything that is supposed to be going
up is going up and everything that is supposed to be going down is going down.
I think you know the record that we can also speak with great pride about.
It's the first time that a President of the United States can seek election or re-
election in the last 20 years where that President can say this country is at peace,
and when we can say we are meeting our manpower needs without the draft.
We are spending all of the money that is needed and necessary for good military
programs: the Air Force, the Army, the Navy, and Marines. We have this peace,
we are going to keep it by being strong, diligent, alert, well-prepared, well-led.
And then, if we turn to the last point, if you will refresh your memories, 21
months ago this country had gone through a very, very serious loss of con-
fidence. It was not an easy job, but I think by openness and candor and respon-
sibility, frankness, integrity, we have helped to restore public confidence in
the White House and in the executive branch.
And so if we have an opportunity to do this job for another 4 years, I can
promise you that the progress we have made will be increased tremendously in
the 4 years. So, I hope and trust that you and all of your friends and neighbors
will give us a chance to do so.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 6:12 p.m. in the
Hall of Four Flags at the Ramada Inn. In his open-
ing remarks, he referred to Senators Roman Hruska
and Carl Curtis of Nebraska.
1491
