[387]
April 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
They recognize what has happened in Angola where you have 10 to 15,000
Cubans. The Cubans with the Soviet backing actually have a tremendous im-
pact on the Government of Angola. And I think most other African nations
don't want that to happen. They want their problems solved by themselves
without any domination from Cuba, the Soviet Union, or any other world power.
So, it is our best judgment and knowledge, information that these countries
are seeking to keep out a dominant influence militarily, economically, or other-
wise by Cuba.
MINUTEMAN III MISSILES; SALT II NEGOTIATIONS
[33.] Q. Mr. President, Ed Walsh with the Washington Post. Last Janu-
ary, Secretary Rumsfeld in his annual report to Congress said in effect that we
already have enough Minuteman missiles and to build more than the 550 we
have would not be worth it. That being the case, sir, how do you justify asking
Congress for $322 million to do that?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, if you go back and look at the budget that I submitted
in January for the Department of Defense, we said that the Minuteman III
production line would close under present plans sometime early this spring.
At that time, it looked like we would probably make more progress in a SALT
II agreement, and if we had consummated a SALT II agreement, there wouldn't
be any need for a further add-on to the Minuteman III production line. That
progress has not materialized, and on the basis of good economics, and on the
basis of good judgment, which we indicated in our budget presentation, we
have decided to proceed with the Minuteman III add-on production.
Q. Does that mean, Mr. President, that if there is a sudden breakthrough, a
sudden improvement in the pace of those negotiations, you may withdraw that
request?
THE PRESIDENT. That is a possibility, but again, we can't speculate to that de-
gree. This is just good insurance and good economics. And that's why we have
asked for the extra money, and we said we might do it if negotiations didn't
produce as we hoped they should.
REPORTER. Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you all very, very much.
NOTE: President Ford's thirty-first news conference began at 9-32 a m. in the Imperial Ballroom West at
the Hyatt Regency Hotel.
1314
