April 28
[385]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Those negotiations are aimed at the preservation of our national interests in the
Panama Canal. And we are going to negotiate.
No decision has been made to maintain the operational capabilities, the main-
tenance capability, and the defense capabilities for an extended period of time
into the next century during the economic lifetime of that canal.
We are not going to give up our national interests in the preservation or the
utilization of that canal, period.
Now, when anybody says we should terminate negotiations, what does that
mean? It means that we will undoubtedly have the riots and the bloodshed that
took place in 1964 when 24 people, including 4 Americans, were killed. It will
undoubtedly mean that we will incur the enmity, the antagonism of 309 million
people in Latin and South America, including 25 nations. And it undoubtedly
would mean that in order to preserve peace and to protect the canal, we would
have to send an additional 10-20,000 more American GI's down to defend the
canal. We can avoid all of that and protect our national interest by continuing
the negotiations.
Now, to answer the basic question that you asked me—[laughter]—I under-
stand in the heat of a political campaign that sometimes statements are made
that, if they had the responsibility to exercise the responsibility, they wouldn't
be quite as wild. And, therefore, having been in some political campaigns and
understanding that people get overexcited and make sometimes exaggerated
statements and campaign charges, well, we will take a look at it after we get the
nomination in Kansas City. [Laughter]
U.S. PARTICIPATION IN THE UNITED NATIONS
[7.] Q. Mr. President, my question is that, why has the United States less-
ened its hardline stand against Third World and Communist countries? And
I am speaking in reference to the recent resignation of Daniel Moynihan as our
representative in the United Nations.
THE PRESIDENT. In the first place, that is not an accurate statement that we
have changed our attitude in any way whatsoever in the United Nations. First,
let me be quite frank: I appointed Pat Moynihan to the United Nations; he was
carrying out my policy in the United Nations the way I wanted it carried out;
and he resigned only for personal reasons. So, there is no change in the policy
between the days of Pat Moynihan and the days of Bill Scranton, who is now
our Ambassador there. Both of them have been, are, and will carry out my poli-
cies, and they are firm and strong on behalf of the United States of America.
1295
