May 3
[417]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
we should receive this year. And looking at that, I feel that the unemployment
rate is still high, at least in our communities, in the poor communities.
What can be done in terms of getting more funds through the prime sponsor
if the prime sponsor feels that it is needed to reach more unemployed and
underemployed people?
THE PRESIDENT. Who do you mean by the prime sponsor? The city, or the-
Q. I mean both-city and State.
The President. I think that is a matter that you have to deal with at the local
level. We do expect to have the CETA program fully funded at the Federal
level and the disbursements made to the local units of government, as far as the
Federal Government is concerned.
There are some very limited contingency funds at the Federal level which
are available for unusual circumstances so the Federal officials can meet a crisis
in one area or another, but they are relatively small in comparison to the total.
But the basic problem I think you raise, within the funds that are given by
the Federal Government to the local officials, your problem is dealing at the
local level except for the contingency funds which I mentioned at the Federal
level.
Q. Mr. President, I'm Harold Negley, the Indiana superintendent of public
instruction. As you know, education funds from the Federal Government some-
times come in such categories, so tightly wound about with both redtape and
categorization that the local schools cannot fully utilize them. How can you
help us in the face of a Congress that seems to want to exercise more and more
control over education to turn that back?
THE PRESIDENT. The best way to do it, Mr. Superintendent, is to get the Con-
gress to approve what I recommended in January, which is a consolidation of
the 26 categorical grant programs of the Federal Government in the field of
education into one block grant program so that $3,200 million for primary and
secondary education can be divided between the 50 States and the various school
districts throughout the country.
We have a provision in what I recommended to hold school districts harm-
less, and we added $200 million in there to get some more enthusiasm by State
school superintendents. And, as I understand it, most of you have supported
what we are trying to do and to try to get local units of government to also back
us.
The problem, as you very validly point out, is we have 26 categorical educa-
tion programs, each at the Federal level having its own bureaucracy, and they
all require forms to be filled out, applications to be processed, and rigid, inflexi-
1429
