April 30
[398]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
QUESTIONS
DEREGULATION OF NATURAL GAS
[1.] Q. Mr. President, I'm Joe Walker from Merrill Lynch. Would you
comment on the prospects of deregulation of natural gas in the current session
of Congress?
THE PRESIDENT. As most of you know, in January of 1975 when I submitted
to the Congress and to the American people my State of the Union Message, I
included my recommendations for the deregulation of domestic oil production
by April 1 and the immediate deregulation of new natural gas.
Earlier this year, over a year later, the United States Senate passed a modified
version of what I proposed. I wanted total deregulation of new natural gas, but
they passed a bill that I supported because it was the best we could get through
the Senate—the Bentsen-Pearson bill-that would be acceptable. We made a
massive effort to try and get the House of Representatives to go along with a
comparable piece of legislation, a bill sponsored by Representative Krueger of
Texas.
We supported that. Again, it wasn't perfect, but it was a major step in alleviat-
ing the current situation. Tragically, it lost by three or four votes in the House
of Representatives—the House substituting a Smith bill, which was a step back-
ward rather than a step forward.
So, we're now at an impasse―a Senate bill which I support and a House bill
which I oppose. We are trying to find a way to mesh them to find a compromise,
but I have to be honest with you and say that the House bill is so bad I see no
possibility of getting affirmative action.
And the sad part is, we lost by 206 to 203 as I recall-unbelievable. So, the
prospects right now are not encouraging. It's a sad and tragic situation, but we're
going to keep putting the pressure on.
I don't understand people who want to continue what we've had, which is
the regulation of interstate transmission of natural gas. We have got to do
something to provide an incentive, and if so, we have got to get rid of regulations.
I pledge to you, as I have tried since I have been President, to try and get rid
of that legislation which hamstrings us, which hurts us. But right now the
prospects are not encouraging. We have to get some new faces in the Congress,
that is the problem.
1349
