April 27
[368]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
pressive progress in combatting the drug menace. So much so that by mid-
1973 many were convinced that we had "turned the corner" on the drug abuse
problem.
Unfortunately, while we had won an important victory, we had not won the
war on drugs. By 1975, it was clear that drug use was increasing, that the
gains of prior years were being lost, that in human terms, narcotics had be-
come a national tragedy. Today, drug abuse constitutes a clear and present
threat to the health and future of our Nation.
The time has come to launch a new and more aggressive campaign to re-
verse the trend of increasing drug abuse in America. And this time we must be
prepared to stick with the task for as long as necessary.
Because of my deep concern about this problem and my personal commit-
ment to do something about it, last year I directed the Domestic Council to
undertake a thorough review and assessment of the adequacy of the Federal
drug program. That review, which culminated in the publication of the White
Paper on Drug Abuse, has helped tremendously to refocus and revitalize the
Federal effort. We have made substantial progress in implementing the many
sound recommendations contained in the White Paper, but more needs to be
done.
And more will be done. The first need for stronger action is against the
criminal drug trafficker. These merchants of death, who profit from the misery
and suffering of others, deserve the full measure of national revulsion. They
should be the principal focus of our law enforcement activities—at the Federal,
State and local level. In this regard, I am pleased to note that arrests by Fed-
eral law enforcement officers of major drug traffickers are up substantially over
previous years. However, the progress we have made in improving our ability
to apprehend these traffickers will be lost unless major changes are made in the
way our criminal justice system deals with drug traffickers after arrest.
Justice Department statistics show that one out of every four persons convicted
of trafficking in heroin received no prison sentence at all. One out of every three
received a sentence of less than three years. And since convicted traffickers are
eligible for parole upon the completion of one-third of their sentence, even
those who received longer sentences rarely served more than a few years.
I believe this is wrong. It is wrong for the criminals who profit by selling
drugs, it is wrong for the victims of drugs, and it is wrong for our system of
justice. Laws which permit traffickers to go free to prey again on society should
be changed. These criminals must know with certainty that, if convicted, they
1219
