[523]
May 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
free world's. But our strengths and our goals of peace and freedom will be to no
avail if we lack the will, the unity, and the steadfastness required to use our
power to support our friends. If there is a doubt, if there is uncertainty about our
cohesiveness and the clarity of policy, our friends cannot be protected nor our
opponents dissuaded from aggressive adventures.
President Truman, recalling the whistlestop campaign that brought him
behind your eight ball in 1948, wrote in his memoirs that there could hardly
have been a worst time for a political election than in that summer. He was try-
ing to persuade the Russians to negotiate and to prevent a war in the Middle
East.
While he was battling the "do-nothing Congress," as he called it, he was also
being assailed by the right wing of his own party for being an appeaser and by
its left wing for being a warmonger. Well, as Mr. Truman often said, if you
can't stand the heat you should stay out of the kitchen.
So, now, being in the same kitchen behind the same eight ball, I would be
glad to respond to as many of your questions as we have time for.
Thank you very much.
QUESTIONS
GOALS OF FORD ADMINISTRATION
[1.] Q. Good morning, Mr. President. There has been some criticism that
your campaign lacks a theme; they say it lacks vision, a rallying cry. Would
you please respond to that, sir?
THE PRESIDENT. I believe we have a theme. I have been preaching it almost
from the inception of this administration but, more directly, since the campaign
started in January in New Hampshire: peace, which we have achieved and
which we intend to maintain; prosperity, which we have accomplished despite
the problems of the last 12 months, we are well on the way to a surging econ-
omy; and the restoration of trust and confidence in the White House itself.
And my vision, as far as the next 4 years and the next century, can be very
simply put—and let me go back just a bit. Our first century of America resulted
in the United States accomplishing the unbelievable, of having a good, free gov-
ernment where freedom was a vitally important ingredient and where the pro-
cedures for government were well established. Our second century of this
great country developed our industrial capacity so that we now have the greatest
capacity in that regard of any nation in the history of mankind.
1708
