July 3
[640]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
to the Government usually made at the front end of the lease—on 50 percent of
the acreage, an unnecessarily stringent provision. This bill would also require
production within 10 years, with no additional flexibility. Furthermore it would
require approval of operating and reclamation plans within three years of lease
issuance. While such terms may be appropriate in many lease transactions—or
perhaps most of them—such rigid requirements will nevertheless serve to set-
back efforts to accelerate coal production.
Other provisions of S. 391 will unduly delay the development of our coal re-
serves by setting up new administrative roadblocks. In particular, S. 391 requires
detailed anti-trust review of all leases, no matter how small; it requires four sets
of public hearings where one or two would suffice; and it authorizes States to
delay the process where National forests—a Federal responsibility—are
concerned.
Still other provisions of the bill are simply unnecessary. For instance, one pro-
vision requires comprehensive Federal exploration of coal resources. This pro-
vision is not needed because the Secretary of the Interior already has—and is
prepared to exercise—the authority to require prospective bidders to furnish the
Department with all of their exploration data so that the Secretary, in dealing
with them, will do so knowing as much about the coal resources covered as the
prospective lessees.
For all of these reasons, I believe that S. 391 would have an adverse impact on
our domestic coal production. On the other hand, I agree with the sponsors of
this legislation that there are sound reasons for providing in Federal law-not
simply in Federal regulations—a new Federal coal policy that will assure a fair
and effective mechanism for future leasing.
Accordingly, I ask the Congress to work with me in developing legislation
that would meet the objections I have outlined and would also increase the
State share of Federal leasing revenues.
The White House,
July 3, 1976.
NOTE: On August 3, 1976, the Senate voted to
override the President's veto. With the vote in the
House of Representatives to override the veto on
GERALD R. FORD
August 4, S. 391 was enacted as Public Law 94-377
(90 Stat. 1083).
1959
