June 28
[621]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
the steady growth of East/West trade, and expressed the hope that economic
relations between East and West would develop their full potential on a sound
financial and reciprocal commercial basis. We agreed that this process warrants
our careful examination, as well as efforts on our part to ensure that these eco-
nomic ties enhance overall East/West relationships.
We welcome the adoption, by the participating countries, of converging
guidelines with regard to export credits. We hope that these guidelines will be
adopted as soon as possible by as many countries as possible.
In the pursuit of our goal of sustained expansion, the flow of capital facilitates
the efficient allocation of resources and thereby enhances our economic well-
being. We, therefore, agree on the importance of a liberal climate for interna-
tional investment flows. In this regard, we view as a constructive development the
declaration which was announced last week when the OECD Council met at
the Ministerial level.
In the field of energy, we intend to make efforts to develop, conserve and use
rationally the various energy resources and to assist the energy development
objectives of developing countries.
We support the aspirations of the developing nations to improve the lives of
their peoples. The role of the industrialized democracies is crucial to the success
of their efforts. Cooperation between the two groups must be based on mutual
respect, take into consideration the interests of all parties and reject unproductive
confrontation in favor of sustained and concerted efforts to find constructive
solutions to the problems of development.
The industrialized democracies can be most successful in helping the develop-
ing countries meet their aspirations by agreeing on, and cooperating to imple-
ment, sound solutions to their problems which enhance the efficient operation
of the international economy. Close collaboration and better coordination are
necessary among the industrialized democracies. Our efforts must be mutually
supportive, not competitive. Our efforts for international economic cooperation
must be considered as complementary to the policies of the developing countries
themselves to achieve sustainable growth and rising standards of living.
At Rambouillet, the importance of a cooperative relationship between the de-
veloped and developing nations was affirmed; particular attention was directed
to following up the results of the Seventh Special Session of the UN General
Assembly, and especially to addressing the balance of payments problems of
some developing countries. Since then, substantial progress has been made. We
welcome the constructive spirit which prevails in the work carried out in the
framework of the Conference on International Economic Cooperation, and also
1925
