[420]
May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
In the case that you speak of, it was actually a case that required legislative
action first, and as a result, I could do nothing until Congress passed a law
granting an exception to the existing law for that particular individual that
you mentioned.
But we will take a look at it. I hope if you haven't done so, you will get in
touch with your Members of Congress in both the House and the Senate.
Thank you all very, very much. It's been a privilege and a pleasure to be here.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:28 p.m. in the Con-
cert Theatre at the Civic Center. The forum was
sponsored by the Birmingham Area Chamber of
Commerce.
David Hamilton, chairman of the board of the
Birmingham Area Chamber of Commerce, intro-
du.ed the President
421
Remarks in Birmingham, Alabama. May 3, 1976
THANK YOU very, very much, Congressman John Buchanan, Congressman
Bill Dickinson, Congressman Jack Edwards. I am deeply indebted to all three
of you for those wonderful words of confidence, those words of endorsement.
And may I say that it was a great privilege and honor for me to serve with you
in the Congress of the United States. I had your support then, and I am
honored to have your support and endorsement in this campaign for the Presi-
dency of the United States.
Mayor Vann, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, at the outset, let
me express my deepest gratitude and appreciation, as well as compliments, to
the fine Stanford University Choir and the wonderful bands who have par-
ticipated on this occasion. It's great to be in Birmingham, as John Buchanan
said, the all-American city, and I congratulate you for it.
I understand that you had quite a race yesterday at Talladega, the Winston
500. The car I came in this afternoon might not have been fast enough to beat
Buddy Baker, but we have got another race on our hands tomorrow, and that's
a race I would sure like to win with your help. Winning seems to be quite a
habit in Alabama, and the record of the great Alabama football team speaks
for itself. My congratulations to my good friends Bear Bryant and the Crimson
Tide, and to Shug Jordan' and the Auburn War Eagles.
You know that sounds like the competition between my alma mater, Michi-
gan-University of Michigan-and Michigan State University. What pleases
'Paul (Bear) Bryant, head coach of the University of Alabama football team, and Ralph (Shug
Jordan, head coach of the Auburn University football team.
1458
