May 25
[523]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
3 forces—the MPLA [Popular Movement for the Liberation of Angola], which
was being supported to a minimum degree by the Soviet Union; the FNLA
[National Front for the Liberation of Angola]; and the UNITA [National
Union for the Total Independence of Angola] forces which we, to a degree,
were supporting.
It looked, as I recall, in October, that if we were able to add a few million dol-
lars with no U.S. military personnel, that the UNITA and the FNLA forces
could have prevailed. And I went through the proper procedure with the vari-
ous committees of the House and the Senate, told them what we wanted to do
with the money that they had made available for our intelligence covert
operations.
The Senate, particularly, said no; in other words, cut our ground from under-
neath us. And the net result is we couldn't spend the money to help the two
what we thought were the legitimate forces in Angola.
The minute the Senate of the United States and eventually the House joined
them in removing our capability to spend this money in conjunction with some
other allies throughout the world who were ready to help us—the minute that
happened, the Soviet Union accelerated its military involvement with some $200
million worth of arms, sophisticated weapons, and the Cuban troops moved in
en masse. And when that happened the Soviet weapons and the Cuban person-
nel, the UNITA and the FNLA were wiped out and the MPLA took over. And
the net result today is you have a festering situation in Angola where you still
have 12,000 to 15,000 Cuban mercenaries, supported by the Soviet Union, and
the danger of that situation developing in other southern African countries. I
think it was the worst mistake that the Congress has done in a long, long time,
because it has accelerated the radicalism in southern Africa.
And when I sent Secretary Kissinger over there 2 or 3 weeks ago, it was aimed
at trying to get the moderates to come back from radicalism and to keep the
radicals from going into a violent race war, and I think we made a lot of head-
way.
But this all could have been avoided if we hadn't made a serious mistake-
when I say we, I say the Congress-it all could have been avoided if they had
given us a relatively small amount of money to help what I think were the legiti-
mate parties in Angola.
Q. Mr. President, this will be the last question.
THE PRESIDENT. We can have one more after this if somebody is ready, willing,
and able.
1711
