May 26
[532]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
reductions in Federal taxation. I reminded them that I have proposed an extra
$10 billion tax reduction, beginning as of July 1, including an increase in the per-
sonal exemption from $750 to $1,000.
I told them the big problem was the Congress, and I hoped that they would
put pressure on the Congress, along with myself, so we could get some better
equity in the tax structure, particularly for middle-income people.
I also said that the Congress was a problem on Federal spending. They want
to spend $17 billion more than I do, and I'm going to fight with the Congress
and do my very best to try to get the Congress to be more realistic in a reduction
in the rate of growth of Federal spending.
But there was one other issue that was of deep concern to public officials, and
I think equally so to the citizens of cities like San Jose and elsewhere: Unless
the Congress passes my proposed extension of general revenue sharing, there
will be very serious consequences in San Jose or in San Diego or all of the
other communities in California.
I have recommended a 5¾4-year extension of general revenue sharing, which
would help significantly 39,000 communities in 50 States throughout the coun-
try. Mayor Pete Wilson of San Diego told me that unless the Congress acts favor-
ably on my proposal to extend general revenue sharing, that it was his estimate
that in communities throughout California there would have to be cut a 54-cent
increase for every $100 of assessed valuation. Now, I'm for general revenue shar-
ing, and if my general revenue sharing program goes through, we can avoid that
kind of a local tax increase in San Jose and San Diego.
Now, some Presidential hopefuls are against general revenue sharing. I think
my opponent in the Republican primary is one. So, I just hope that the voters,
public officials in the State of California will work with me in getting an ex-
tension of general revenue sharing so we can avoid the kind of tax increases
at the local level that would be inevitable.
Now, I will be glad to answer a question or two.
REPORTER. Mr. President, do you consider the wins in Tennessee and Ken-
tucky upset victories ?
THE PRESIDENT. We thought we had a fighting chance in both Kentucky and
Tennessee. We obviously are very pleased with the win in both instances. They
were good news from our side and may have been a little disappointing to our
opposition.
Q. Mr. President, you told us yesterday you expected to split about even on
delegates, but you lost more than 20.
THE PRESIDENT. We didn't do quite as well in the delegate count, but when you
1735
