April 23
[356]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Michigan was good—[laughter]—and they had a good season. We had one
unblemished record—we lost three times to the national champions.
So, let me also recognize some of your city's contributions to some of America's
great professional teams. You gave Bob Griese to the Dolphins, Jerry Sloan to the
Bullets, and you gave a home to the Tigers' Triplets. I understand their first
home game of the season is this evening, and naturally, I wish them an awful
lot of luck. But judging from their record last year, I don't think they are going
to need very much luck in 1976.
It's been my experience that people with talent and energy create their own
good fortune, and Evansville is a very good example of just that. The people of
Evansville have known hard times. The people of Evansville have shown that
they have the drive and the initiative to overcome their setbacks and to build
for a better future. The progress you have made over the years in this great com-
munity through the cooperation of your local government, citizens, and business
community is a fine example of how Americans can solve their own problems at
their own local level.
You are very right and proper to be proud of these accomplishments, and I
join many, many others in wishing you the best for the years ahead.
It is also right that the Federal Government helped you in your efforts, because
that's exactly what I feel the Federal Government should do-not take responsi-
bility away from the people at the local level, but give them the freedom to use
their own energies, their own initiatives, and their own wisdom. And that is
what we are going to do in the future as we have in the past under this
administration.
A little later this morning we are going to visit the Walkway. I look forward
to seeing that great project. Because the Walkway was your idea, it was your
project, and city and private funds paid for some 30 percent of its cost, you
should be proud of that effort.
But I must say that the Department of Housing and Urban Development also
made some funds available so that you could realize your idea, so you could be
free to do right here locally what was right for you.
Just recently you have seen another example of local initiative in how the
Federal Government helped you to help yourselves. With the cooperation of
your city government under the fine leadership of Mayor Russ Lloyd, with the
cooperation of unions and management, you have put together a labor-manage-
ment committee that is going to play a very, very important part in your com-
munity's economic future.
I am glad to announce to Mayor Lloyd and Governor Bowen-announce to
1171
