[385]
April 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
the commonsense and pragmatic realism which today's complex problems de-
mand, not the simplistic proposals that sound so good on the campaign trail.
My experience tells me that I must deal with the world as it is if we are to
make it the world we want it to be.
This is particularly true when it comes to the life-and-death decisions con-
cerning our national security. The decisions made in this very, very vital area
must be the right ones. There are no retakes in the Oval Office.
My record is clear. Since I became President I have recommended to the
Congress the two largest military budgets in the history of the United States.
They were needed to make certain that our military capabilities continue to be
strong in the years ahead, as they must be if we are to find the peace and security
that we all seek.
I am determined, as I always have been, to keep America's military might
totally unsurpassed by any nation on this globe. Yet you know we sometimes
get-well, sometimes when I hear the critics complaining about America's de-
fense policy and American foreign policy, always complaining but never offer-
ing any program of their own, I am reminded of one of the finest Texans I
ever had the privilege to know in the Congress.
Former Speaker Sam Rayburn served 50 years in Washington with over 3,000
Congressmen and 8 different Presidents. At the end of a long, long day, after he
had worked hard to make a better life for America, when he heard from the
chronic complainers, he loved to recall what his father once told him, and let
me quote: “Any donkey can kick a barn down, but it takes an awfully good car-
penter to build one up."
Now, as far as the national security policies of this country are concerned,
I am convinced that the American people would rather have a President who
is constructively seeking to build the foundations of lasting security than some-
one who spends most of his time trying to kick them down.
Now you and all the voters in Texas have to make your own decision. We
have come a long, long way together. We made it out of the worst economic
crisis in a generation. America continues to be a nation whose total resources
in national defense and agriculture and science and technology and industry
make it the strongest and finest nation in the world, in the world's history. We
will keep America strong if we continue our sound and steady policy of realism
and commonsense, if we keep a government that protects its people's freedoms,
respects their independence, and responds to its needs, a government that prom-
ises only what it can deliver and delivers everything that it promises.
In the primary election next Saturday and in the election next November, I
1
1290
