April 28
[383]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
just give you my broad view that we want equity, and we don't want any bene-
fit going to one group that another group doesn't have. And I can just tell you
we are going to be very, very tight and tough on what we decide to do.
U.S. GROWTH POLICY
[7.] Q. Mr. President, my question is the Clean Air Act bill, which is
scheduled to be considered on the Senate floor next week, would in some people's
opinion create a "no growth" policy for this country. Mr. President, do you
support a no growth policy for the United States?
THE PRESIDENT. I categorically am opposed to a no growth policy in this coun-
try. And if that Senate bill or the final version comes down to me and it is a
no growth policy piece of legislation, I will veto it.
You know this country didn't get where it is today—and I happen to think
it's the greatest country in the history of the world—I love it, as all of you do—
by having a no growth policy. This country got where it is today with all the
material benefits, all the moral and spiritual benefits by having a progressive,
forward-looking growth policy, and that's the kind of a country I want in the
future.
HOUSING
[8.] Q. Mr. President, the real estate development and construction industry
has recently suffered its worst depression in years. Now that the economy is im-
proving, it appears as though the primary obstacle in the path of recovery of
this industry is bureaucratic redtape. The agencies referred to that are basically
involved are the HUD, FHA, and the HUD interstate land sales.
Real estate developers must spend 6 to 12 months waiting for FHA to proc-
ess paperwork for approval prior to being able to fund projects which are cri-
tically needed to meet the housing needs of this Nation. Because of the large
dollar amounts, these delays cost the consumers thousands of dollars per day
of added costs. What are your feelings about eliminating these long delays en-
countered by the real estate industry in dealing with the Federal bureaucracy?
If you're willing to help curtail these long delays, will you support our in-
dustry's participation in dealing with this problem or does the industry just
have to wait until the bureaucracy corrects itself? Mr. President, we are fortu-
nate enough to be in the greatest business city in this whole country. We need
your help; the consumer will need your help, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. Let me ask you, are you talking about multifamily housing
units or the FHA program for individual units? I'm not familiar with any
1283
