May 27
[536]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
from California has introduced legislation to clarify the Mammal Protection
Act. And that legislation would give more flexibility so that the tuna industry
can be saved on the one hand and the new procedures of the tuna fishermen,
which protects the lives of porpoises, can be carried out. I think that is a respon-
sible position for an administration to take.
Q. Just to follow up my original question, sir, you said in reply to a question
on busing on the West Coast, and I think I am quoting you correctly, that
“maybe we need some new judges.” Mr. President, are you suggesting if elected
you might try to pack the Federal courts with judges favorable to your position
on busing?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me say that the one opportunity I have had to appoint a
judge to the United States Supreme Court, he was almost unanimously approved
because of his high quality. He wasn't selected because he had any prejudgments
or conclusions concerning anything. He was a man of great intellect, great ex-
perience, and good judgment. And I would expect in the next 4 years to appoint
people of the same quality and caliber, and I would expect the United States
Senate to overwhelmingly approve them as they did Justice Stevens.
REPORTER. Thank you, Mr. President.
NOTE: President Ford's thirty-third news conference began at 7:01 p.m. in the Presidential Ballroom East
at the Neil House Hotel in Columbus, Ohio.
536
Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual Report of the
Railroad Retirement Board. May 27, 1976
To the Congress of the United States:
I hereby transmit to you the Annual Report of the Railroad Retirement Board
for fiscal year 1975.
The Report indicates that the Board paid retirement and survivor payments
in excess of $3 billion to almost one million one hundred thousand individuals
during the fiscal year, and that it made unemployment and sickness benefit pay-
ments totaling $67 million to over 137,000 claimants.
This Report also includes a summary of legislation enacted in 1974, which
restructured the retirement and survivor program and substantially improved
the financing of the railroad retirement system. In addition, it includes a de-
scription of the 1975 amendments to the Railroad Unemployment Insurance
1757
