April 27
[367]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
It opens a door that, in effect, invites other talented people like yourselves to
move in and help us in the many tough and difficult jobs that we have both here
at home as well as abroad.
You have shown us that it can be done. The door is open for literally hundreds
and hundreds of others to follow. And I am sure, as we move ahead, we will
do this in the way that it should be done, which means more and more jobs for
those like you.
Congratulations, thank you, and the very best to you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:52 a.m. in the State
Dining Room at the White House to a group of
women who were attending a briefing by administra-
tion officials.
367
Remarks Upon Signing the Drug Abuse Message.
April 27, 1976
FOR NEARLY a year, I have been devoting increasing attention to a problem
which strikes at the very heart of our national well-being—drug abuse. I have
initiated and then endorsed a major study of this issue. I have met with foreign
heads of state, Members of Congress, and members of my Cabinet to express
my deep concern and the need for action, and I have publicly spoken about
this as one of the most serious and tragic problems our country faces.
Today I am sending to the Congress a special message on drug abuse which
outlines, in very frank terms, the severity of this problem and which proposes
definitive steps which must be taken to meet the challenge posed by the worsen-
ing drug situation.
I am requesting the Congress to enact specific legislation to improve our
ability to put the traffickers who sell drugs into prison. I am also calling for a
renewed commitment to a program that balances the law enforcement effort
with the provisions of humane and effective treatment for drug users.
Finally, since our ability to control the supply of illegal drugs in this country
depends to a very large degree on the interest and the capability of foreign gov-
ernments in controlling drugs which originate in or move through their terri-
tory, I renew this Government's commitment to providing support for foreign
allies in this fight.
With the combined efforts of the executive branch, the Congress, State and
local government, and the private sector, we can control drug abuse.
Now that the problem is worsening, we must not shrink from this challenge
1217
