[485]
May 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
[4.] BATTLE CREEK (1:58 p.m.)
Good afternoon. It is great to be in Battle Creek, and thank all of you for com-
ing out. We love Michigan, we are glad to be back home.
Betty and I started this train trip from Flint to Niles across the heartland of
Michigan, where we have many, many friends over a long, long period of time,
so we have just had a wonderful reception, and this one in Battle Creek is
tremendous. And let me say that this train trip through the heartland of Michi-
gan is the beginning of a victory in Kansas City that will end up with a victory
on November 2.
You know, I'm an old Michigander-and I mean literally old. I played foot-
ball so long ago back at Ann Arbor that it was back when the ball was round.
[Laughter]
But I have been honored and pleased to have on this trip with me two of the
University of Michigan's outstanding coaches, two friends of mine whose teams
I have admired and cheered for on television and otherwise, and I'm so pleased
to have with me Bo Shembechler, the great football coach at the University of
Michigan. And then, we also have with us that fine, fine coach of the University
of Michigan basketball team, Johnny Orr. Thank you, Johnny.
You know, the Ford candidacy has got the kind of momentum that the Uni-
versity of Michigan football team had last year and the kind of momentum
that the Michigan basketball team had. We're going to keep going, but with
all apologies we're going to win the final one November 2, too.
But let me say a word or two why Betty and I are here, why we want your
vote. I think I have done a good job the last 21 months. Refresh your memory,
if you will.
In August of 1974, this country was in a very difficult situation. For reasons we
all know, the American people had lost their confidence in the White House.
There had been scandals in very high places. We all know that we were suffer-
ing at that time from inflation at the rate of 12 percent a year, and we know that
we were on the brink of the worst economic times in the last 40 years, a serious
recession.
We also know that in August of 1974, our allies abroad were uncertain as to
whether the American people and the American Government would meet
its responsibilities on a worldwide basis, and our adversaries abroad were like-
wise uncertain as to their relationship with the United States.
When I took office on August 8 [9] of 1974, it was not an easy job. We had
a lot of things to do. We had some real tough jobs to handle and some very
difficult and formidable obstacles ahead of us.
1602
