June 7
[580]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
day, and I was delighted that Woody endorsed me. And I am very pleased
that he indicated without any hesitation or qualification that he was going to
vote for me. But, you know, there is one time I would like the State of Ohio
to beat the State of Michigan. A couple of weeks ago we had a primary up in
Michigan, and I got 65 percent of the votes. I challenge you in the State of
Ohio to beat that record.
Thank you very much. I do ask you seriously—I think I have done a good
job. I have been open and candid, and we have restored the trust, we have
turned the economy around, and we have achieved-and we are going to
maintain—the peace. That is a record I am proud of, and I want your help
and your vote tomorrow.
Thank you very much.
You know I've had a long, hard day, but this is a great audience, and I've
talked for a few minutes. If you've got about four or five questions, I'll answer
them for you.
QUESTIONS
VIETNAM-ERA DRAFT EVADERS
[1.] Q. [Inaudible]-draft evaders.
The President. I'll be glad to answer that question. The first couple of
weeks that I was in the White House I decided that we would give individuals
who had been draft evaders or had left the country for one reason or another—
[inaudible]—I said that I would give them an opportunity to earn their way
back and clear their records. There were about 120,000 of them, and about
25,000 of them applied, and they've gone through the process. They have cleared
their record, and I'm darn glad of it. And I think it was a good program.
EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES FOR COLLEGE GRADUATES
[2.] Q. Mr. President, you spoke favorably about your employment record,
but I am finding a lot of college students are going out to find jobs and are
not finding them appropriate with their degree plans. I just wonder if that
is a concern of your administration. What have you done, and what are you
planning to do to alleviate the problem?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me say it is a matter of deep concern to this administration,
and a year ago the situation was even more precarious and much more serious.
But I have checked the circumstances very carefully, and I have had the
1853
