June 6
[560]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
case where we can get a clarification or a modification of some of the previous
Supreme Court decisions in this very complex area.
Now, in the interim the Department of Justice has prepared—or is in the
process of preparing legislation, which I will submit to the Congress in the very
near future, which would seek to limit the courts of this country to the correc-
tion of the areas where the local school board, by its act, has violated the con-
stitutional rights of individuals—in this case students—and not to permit the
court to go beyond the instances where rights have been violated.
Now, in some cases the court has taken an illegal act of a school board-
relatively small part of a total school system—and taken over the whole school
system, and the court, in effect, has become the school board. I think that is
wrong, and the Attorney General agrees with me.
The legislation that we will propose will seek to limit, to minimize the cor-
rective action or the remedy by the court to the actual instances where there is
a violation of a person's constitutional right. That will minimize in many cases
to a substantial degree the amount of court-ordered, forced busing.
MR. SCHIEFFER. Mr. President, the courts have already ruled on that point, if
I understand it, in 1973 in the Denver case.
THE PRESIDENT. Are you talking about the Keyes case?
MR. SCHIEFFER. Yes, sir. Have they not, when they said that was not a remedy?
You could not just remedy it in a specific area rather than the whole system.
The President. The Attorney General and his associates informed me that
that has not been totally clarified, and that is the purpose of actually seeking a
case where the Department of Justice can go into a subsequent case and get a
clarification. That is why we are going to propose legislation, so that there is
a legislative direction given to the court to make sure that we protect constitu-
tional rights where there has been a violation and, at the same time, preclude the
courts from becoming in effect the school board in a local community.
MR. SCHIEFFER. Let me ask you just a somewhat broader question, and you
are the attorney and I am not, so maybe you can explain it to me. If the courts
have already ruled that busing is a permissible way to achieve integrated schools,
and they have already ruled that integrated schools are a constitutional right—————
THE PRESIDENT. A permissible remedy to correct an injustice.
MR. Schieffer. How can you pass a law to limit that remedy if the courts
have already ruled it is constitutional? Don't you need a constitutional amend-
ment to overturn that?
THE PRESIDENT. The Constitution permits the legislative body to give guide-
lines in certain court cases. And according to the Attorney General, he believes
1797
