[617]
June 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
that the Members on the Republican side in the House and the Senate fight day
after day after day to achieve, what you and your associates in 50 States do day
after day after day on behalf of the party in the precincts, in the counties, in the
cities, and in the congressional districts.
So, our mission is to have whatever contest we have, but when we leave Kan-
sas City after this nominating process, it is vitally important for the party, yes,
but it is more important for the country and, therefore, I urge and plead that
despite whatever differences we might have between now and August, that when
we leave that convention that we go under a banner of unity and strength. And
I pledge to you that I will do that.
I want to make a special plea, if I might, for full support for Hugh Scott and
John Rhodes-is John here? I understood he was-our leaders, and their aides
or assistants, Bob Griffin and Bob Michel. They have carried on magnificently
under very difficult odds in the Senate as well as in the House. They've been
outnumbered 2 to 1, if not more, and they've done a superb job of holding the
line. And their cooperation and coordination with me in the White House for
the past 22 months has been exemplary.
I couldn't have asked for stronger support than that which Hugh has given
me-Bob Griffin, John Rhodes, and Bob Michel, and their associates in the Re-
publican leadership. What they need is more troops, and so I urge that all of you
get your candidates. I met about 170 of them the other day, and they look aw-
fully good to me. And I know some more will be selected between now and
some time in August or September. But we have to get a sizable number of more
Republicans in both the House and the Senate.
Now, Ted Stevens is the campaign head for the Senate, and Guy Vander Jagt
is the Republican congressional campaign leader. They've done a super job in
raising money, in laying out programs for these candidates. They had a candi-
dates' school here for the House Members this past week. Every candidate that I
saw came away with a tremendous feeling of enthusiasm. They had been well
prepared, and I think we are going to go out and get a sizable number of House
and Senate Members, and that's vitally important.
We can then do some affirmative things instead of just holding on by our
fingertips, which has been the case, as Hugh and Bob and John and Bob Michel
know. And I pledge to you that I will be out there helping in every way possible.
We've got to win from the courthouse to the Congress, and that includes our
gubernatorial candidates across the board.
So, number one, we've got to be unified; number two, we have to strengthen
the party from the grassroots to the White House; and, number three, it's my
1916
