[429]
May 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
429
Statement on Signing the Federal-Aid Highway Act of 1976.
May 5, 1976
TODAY I have signed into law the Federal-Aid Highway Act of 1976. This
legislation is the product of almost a yearlong debate. On July 7, 1975, I sub-
mitted a proposed long-range bill recommending some fundamental changes
in this program. The act I am signing today is a 2-year interim measure which
permits the program to continue, while setting the stage for the next Congress
again to confront the critical issues facing the program.
The proposal that I forwarded to Congress last July had four principal
objectives.
—First, it recommended the restructuring of the present system of financing
highways. The trust fund would have been reserved exclusively for the
completion of the interstate system; all other Federal highway assistance
would have come from the general fund, and 1 cent of the gas tax would
have been returned to the States.
-Second, more than 30 categorical grant programs would have been con-
solidated into 3 block grant programs.
-Third, the Federal interest in the interstate system would have been more
precisely defined, by placing primary emphasis upon completion of critical
intercity routes on the system.
-Fourth, the Federal resources authorized for the highway program would
have been held to responsible levels, consistent with the overriding need to
control Federal spending while still sufficient to achieve the objectives of
the program.
The Congress addressed each of these issues in its deliberations on this bill
and made progress in the direction I had recommended. The bill I am signing
today consolidates a number of existing categorical grant programs into a
broader, more flexible program, a step which should help State and local offi-
cials solve their transportation problems more effectively. This legislation also
assigns priority to the completion of intercity routes, closing critical gaps in
the interstate system. Although this Congress did not address all of the funda-
mental issues of the highway program, the next Congress will need to deal
comprehensively with them.
I am pleased to note that the Congress has taken some action to bring the
operation of the highway program under better fiscal control. However, because
1472
