May 22
[502]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Q. Mr. President, are you moving to the right on the racial issue with these
busing remarks, and the nuclear reactors in South Africa?
THE PRESIDENT. Not at all. I have strongly opposed court-ordered forced bus-
ing to achieve racial balance. I have consistently all my life lived and believed
and voted for the end of segregation. But I think the real answer that we are
trying to get is quality education, and court-ordered, forced busing is not the
best way to achieve quality education.
Therefore, what may transpire by the Attorney General—and he has not yet
made his final decision—is an attempt to get a better remedy for quality edu-
cation than the remedy that has been applied in several States.
In the case of South Africa, we are trying to end the radicalism which has
developed in South Africa since the Soviet Union and Cuba took over Angola.
The way to do that is to convince the independent States in South Africa that
there should be no outside power controlling that part of that continent.
And at the same time, we have to believe, because it is historically the right
thing in this country and what we have believed in—of majority rule with
the absolute protection of minority rights—
Q. Do you mean majority rule in the Soviet Union as well as Rhodesia?
THE PRESIDENT. And in the case of South Africa itself, I have said at the proper
time it will undoubtedly be appropriate for me to meet with the proper govern-
ment officials in South Africa. In the case of Rhodesia, that is another matter.
REPORTER. Thank you very much.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very, very much, sir.
NOTE: The exchange began at 11:06 a.m. at the Jackson County-Medford County Airport.
502
Remarks in Medford, Oregon. May 22, 1976
THANK YOU very, very much, John Dellenbach.
It's nice to be here in Medford's Library Park with Mayor Ben Fagone, my
former colleague in the House of Representatives, Wendell Wyatt, other
distinguished guests. And it's wonderful to have an opportunity to say a few
words to some fellow Americans from the great State of Oregon.
I flew out here this morning to spend 4 days on the west coast asking for
your support. My very first stop on this trip brought me right to Library Park
in the city of Medford. I'm glad to be here. I know you are all glad to be here
just because it's God's country.
1637
