[413]
April 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
high priority that our laws be made more effective in curbing the narcotic traffic.
If the law does not act as a deterrent, the risk of arrest and seizures becomes
merely a cost of doing business for the narcotic traffickers. Unless there exists a
reasonable certainty of punishment after conviction, traffickers have little reason
to get out of the trafficking business. I therefore respectfully urge that these
proposals receive consideration this session.
Sincerely,
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters addressed to
the Honorable Carl Albert, Speaker of the House of
Representatives, and the Honorable Nelson A. Roke-
GERALD R. FORD
feller, President of the Senate.
A section-by-section analysis and a copy of the
draft bill were also included as part of the release.
414
Exchange With Reporters on Arrival at Fort Wayne,
Indiana. May 2, 1976
GOOD AFTERNOON. It's nice to be in Fort Wayne, back in Indiana again.
Why don't you go ahead with your questions?
REPORTER. What happened in Texas, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I was naturally disappointed with the results in Texas.
We expected to get a fair share of the delegates. We didn't. I think the main
problem was a great many crossovers from people who ordinarily vote in the
Democratic primaries and some apathy on the part of some Republicans.
We had real good leadership with Senator John Tower as my chairman. We
had some wonderful volunteers. I think we had a good program. After all, we
have taken this country out of the worst economic recession in the last 40 years,
cut inflation 75 percent, increased jobs over 2,600,000. But we lost, and I don't
think it will have any serious impact on our winning in Kansas City and
winning in November.
Q. What does it do to the Indiana primary?
THE PRESIDENT. I've always thought Indiana was a very important primary,
regardless of what happened in any one of the other 31 or 32 States.
Q. Mr. President, Ronald Reagan has made our military position something
of a campaign issue. If I understand you correctly, though, you have at your
fingertips the power to kill every living thing on the Earth. Why would we
need to have any more military might than that?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I believe that our military forces are fully sufficient to
1406
