[416]
May 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
Humphrey was saying that we were going to go into a depression. We kept our
cool, we held off the Congress, we came up with good programs, and the net
result is from last April and May when we were at the depths of the recession
until right now we have gained 2,700,000 new jobs and our employment is at
the level of 86,700,000, which is the most gainfully employed in the history of
the United States. That's not a bad record.
And then I think when you take a look at what we've tried to do in the way
of tax reform, let me refresh your memory. When I went to the Congress in
January of 1975, when I submitted additional tax proposals later, when I went
to the Congress in January of 1976, I called first for a $28 billion tax reduction.
The Congress gave us about two-thirds of it.
We now want an additional tax reduction on July 1 of 1976. I think it is the
right thing to do, 75 percent of it to go to the individual taxpayer, 25 percent
to business. And here's a selling point that I think can make a lot of sense. We
have recommended that the personal exemption be increased from $750 to
$1,000 and what does that do? That gives the kind of necessary tax relief to the
middle-income taxpayer, the people from $9,000 a year up to $25,000 or $30,000.
That group of our taxpayers have gotten short shrift in the last few years, and we
want to give them the kind of a tax break they deserve because they are the
hardest working, the ones that have the drive, the initiative, and actually they
are the biggest taxpayers.
So, we have got a good tax program which includes additional incentives for
business to expand, to modernize. So, whether you are looking at holding down
the rate of growth of Federal spending, whether it is vetoing bills that Congress
sends down to the Oval Office, whether it is good tax relief or a good tax reform
bill, we are on the right side. And we have done it all in 20 to 21 months.
Now, let me talk for just a minute about some of these charges that have been
made in the heat of the campaign.
People get a little rash and they get a little excitable on the rhetoric that they
use, and I understand that. And yet, I have to come to the conclusion that some-
times people believe it. But I have been saying the right thing on Panama. Now,
let me just tell you the kind of support I got today that I think ought to convince
anybody. If any of you happened to listen to Barry Goldwater on "Meet the
Press," today, you might have heard Barry Goldwater say the following. He was
asked a question by one of the interrogators, and here is what he said; first, the
question: "On the Panama Canal, who is right on that? Whose position do you
support? Ford's or Reagan's?"
1418
