April 30
[401]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
THE PRESIDENT. As I think the people of this part of Texas know, in January
of 1975 I came out very forthrightly for the deregulation of domestic crude oil
prices. I came out very strongly for the deregulation of new natural gas develop-
ment. So, in this area my policies of deregulation for crude oil and for new
natural gas ought to be very appealing.
And furthermore, the agriculture policies of the Ford administration I believe
would be very receptively received here in this part of Texas.
We believe that the Government should get out of the hair and the field and
the farms of farmers all over the country. We believe that farmers ought to be
able to run their own farms without Government interference and without
Government surpluses hanging over their heads.
We believe that the Ford policies in agriculture of selling overseas to the
extent that we have sold and will continue to sell would be very appealing to
agriculture in this part of Texas.
REPORTER. Thank you very much, gentlemen.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much. It is nice to see you all.
NOTE: The exchange began at 12:09 p.m. at Lubbock Regional Airport.
401
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session at a Public Forum
in Lubbock, Texas. April 30, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Dr. Murray, Senator John Tower, Mr. Formby,
Terry Wimmer, reverend clergy, students, faculty, and guests at Texas Tech
University:
First, let me say to you, Dr. Murray, when I was looking at the schedule antici-
pating the arrival here at Lubbock, I speculated that I would probably be com-
ing in in a duststorm. [Laughter] But I decided that it would be much better
for me and for you if I brought some rain. [Laughter]
May I express my deepest appreciation and gratitude for the beautiful medal,
which I will prize and cherish. And I thank all of you, not only Dr. Murray
but the students and faculty and the board of trustees, for this wonderful, tre-
mendous welcome, as well as the very thoughtful gift. Thank you very, very
much.
Quite frankly, I can't tell you how good it feels to be a part of big, friendly
Lubbock-the home of the Texas Techs and the sensational Red Raiders. You
know you have so much going for you here in Lubbock, I just wish I could
1363
