April 29
[392]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Q. If the new FEC [Federal Election Commission] bill hits your desk next
week, what would you do with it?
The President. Well, they haven't sent it down to the White House yet, and
they won't pass it until next Monday or Tuesday. And I learned a long time ago,
dealing with this Congress particularly, I wait and see what the small print
says, and when they get it down there and I take a look at it, then I will make
a decision.
Q. Will Governor Connally be your Secretary of State or hold any other
Cabinet position if you are reelected?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I have said that Governor Connally is fully qualified to
hold any public office in the United States. And after we get the nomination
and after we win in November, we will take a look at the overall situation.
He is certainly qualified for any position between now and November or after
November.
Q. Mr. President, since we last talked with you, Senator Humphrey has an-
nounced that he is not going to enter in New Jersey. What is your reaction to
this? Do you think it is a wise decision?
THE PRESIDENT. I wouldn't pass judgment on whether it is a wise decision or
not. I think it appears to be a very practical decision, because Jimmy Carter got
some tremendous momentum in the Pennsylvania primary. And unless the
powers that be in the Democratic Party sit behind some closed doors in a smoke-
filled room and broker Jimmy Carter out of it, why, I think, it looks to me like
Jimmy has the odds in his favor.
Reporter. Thank you very much.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you all. It is nice to see you.
NOTE: The exchange began at 3:10 p.m. at James Connally Field, located on the Texas State Technical
Institute campus.
392
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session at Baylor
University in Waco, Texas. April 29, 1976
Thank you very, very much Dr. McCall, Senator Tower, President Jay Wolfe,
students, faculty members:
I'm really delighted to be here at Baylor University, the home of the Baylor
Bears and its great coach, Grant Teaff, to whom I had the honor of presenting
1323
