[378]
April 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
JoNell Henslee. With all due respect to Jimmy Carter, she's my kind of peanut.
[Laughter]
Finally, one of the primary responsibilities of this or any other institution
of learning and all others is to provide students with facts, facts and expertise
that will prepare you for the decisionmaking that every job, every carcer, every
profession calls for.
The President of the United States must also deal in facts, and today I would
like to share some of those facts with you so that you can intelligently reach
your own conclusions on a matter of supreme importance to our United States.
Somewhere between the snows of New Hampshire and the sunny climes
down in Florida, the focus of this year's Republican campaign for the Presidency
began to shift away from the growing strength and the growing prosperity
of the American economy to a new and more complex issue-the strength of
America's military forces.
Now, I have been down the campaign trail before, and I know there's a
reason why a challenger will try to shift his attack. It's called second place. It
makes you try harder and sometimes swing wilder. Having failed on the eco-
nomic issue, the central thrust of my opponent's new strategy is to claim that
the United States has become inferior to the Soviet Union, especially in military
strength.
He deliberately quotes statistics without any in-depth understanding of them.
His answer to the alleged inferiority apparently is to change our force struc-
ture so that it matches the Soviets, ship for ship, weapon for weapon, man for
man, rather than looking at the overall capabilities.
First, let me say that the issue is not our military capabilities today. They are
adequate to meet any challenge, let there be no doubt about that. By the testi-
mony of all who know-and I spent much of my life in the Congress and in
the Vice-Presidency and Presidency, dealing with the defense matters in-depth-
by the testimony of Secretaries of Defense, past and present, Deputy Secretary
Bill Clements, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, our military forces
are capable of fulfilling their assigned missions, period.
The important issue is not today, but tomorrow. That's why I have been
working with the Congress and in our country to adopt a defense budget for
the United States which will provide for our national security in the years ahead.
But let's look at the problem for a moment, let's look at the question of
whether as my opponent implies-we should try to reshape our Armed Forces
so that they mirror those of the Soviet Union.
What steps would we have to take in order to be exactly like them? The an-
1252
