[610]
June 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
has been on a long and dangerous roller coaster ride-up one year, down the
next. The accompanying inflation has not only eroded personal income but it
has eaten away at public confidence in our economic institutions, the very insti-
tutions that served to give us the highest standard of living anywhere in the
world.
The first order of business in the Government of the United States is to put
the economy on a smooth, upward course and to keep it moving in that direction.
The enormous surge in Government spending and Government deficits must
be ended. The only way to hold down the cost of living is to hold down the cost
of Government.
If I may be permitted to interject a word on a subject that is before the Con-
gress at this moment, I would urge that this organization join in the struggle to
enact responsible, new tax legislation in the next 10 days.
On July 1, the temporary tax enacted last year will expire, and unless the Con-
gress acts promptly, taxes will automatically increase. The Congress should not
only extend the tax cut that was enacted last year but should increase it by $10
billion and make it permanent. There is no excuse for the Government to take
more and more of your earnings when it cannot fully justify their use and
especially when those hard-earned tax dollars of yours can do more good for you
and for this country in your pocket, not in the Government Treasury.
Let me specify two specific provisions in the additional $10 billion tax reduc-
tion that I proposed and Congress must approve to help your family and our
country. The personal exemption must be increased from $750 to $1,000. The
estate tax exemption must be increased from $60,000 to $150,000, so that small
business and small farms can stay in one family from one generation to
another and not in the pockets of the taxpayer. And there is one other provision
that involves all of you-estate tax transfers from husband to wife or wife to
husband must be tax free.
Full individual freedom in America also means freedom from intrusive, over-
bearing government. This is a familiar theme in our American history. As long
ago as Thomas Jefferson-he sounded it in the Declaration of Independence
itself, where he complained that His Majesty's Government “has erected a Multi-
tude of new Offices, and sent [hither] Swarms of Officers to harrass our
People..."
Today we see the intrusion of our own Federal Government in many forms,
some old and some new. We see it in the many regulatory agencies that have
sprouted up along the Potomac and have imposed the massive regulatory burden
upon American business. We see it in the way that some of our other departments
1900
