[636]
July 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
636
Remarks Upon Accepting Norway's Bicentennial Gift
to the United States. July 2, 1976
IT IS a great privilege and pleasure for me to welcome the Royal Highnesses to
the White House and to the East Garden, and we are deeply grateful as a nation
for their thoughtfulness and generous gift on behalf of our Bicentennial.
I think it is very typical of the feelings that the Norwegian people have. It is my
understanding that this idea for this gift for this purpose came from a health
center that is in Norway, and to give it to a health center for the purpose of
helping the handicapped is a wonderful expression of not only generosity but
thoughtfulness from those who are healthy to those who are less fortunate.
So, we are extremely grateful, Your Royal Highness, for this kindness on be-
half of the American people at the time of the celebration of our 200th
anniversary.
It has been a pleasure to chat with you and to know that we have some mutual
interests. They do it much better than I. They are much younger-when we are
talking about skiing-but Hubert' is a good skier. [Laughter]
I do want you to know that the American people, 215 million strong, Your
Royal Highness, are deeply grateful for the gift. And will you express to His
Majesty King Olav, and to the Prime Minister and to the people of Norway our
gratitude and appreciation for what will be a most worthwhile and very, very
effective gift for those who are handicapped in America.
Thank you very, very much.
CROWN PRINCE HARALD. Mr. President, Your Excellencies, ladies and gentle-
men:
The Crown Princess and I consider it a great honor and indeed a privilege to
be here in the White House to represent our country at this historic time when
even a Viking is circling Mars in preparation for a touchdown. [Laughter]
Now, my countrymen have for centuries had an urge to explore, and in the
era of Vikings, 1,000 years ago, their adventurous spirit led them to this country,
where they discovered what they named Vinland. Some centuries later, though,
your great Republic was founded by other explorers and settlers from the Old
World.
A great part of the Norwegian people emigrated to this country and helped to
ยน Senator Hubert H. Humphrey of Minnesota.
1950
