[373]
April 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
you that we will deliver everything we promise, this year and for the next
5 years.
With these general comments, I will be glad to respond to the questions.
QUESTIONS
HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION IN LOUISIANA
[1] Q. Mr. President, let me quickly say that in behalf of public officials
we appreciate your position on revenue sharing.
My question concerns the construction of the north-south toll road, a four-
lane highway that will link north and south Louisiana. We've been told that
your administration favors the construction of this road. We would appreciate
hearing your comments on the position that your administration takes and how
you feel about it?
THE PRESIDENT. We do favor the construction of that highway. It is my under-
standing that the highway bill, that is just about to be completed by the Con-
gress, has a provision in that legislation, or prospective legislation, that will
permit the initiation or the necessary funding for that particular highway-
the north-south highway-and, as I indicated, if that legislation passes and we
sign it, which we will, as far as I know, I think you will be on the road with
the project which you mentioned.
FEDERAL ENERGY POLICY
[2] Q. Mr. President, this being a major oil and gas area and with the
production of that in this area, we are interested in the future plans for domestic
oil and gas. Also, we are interested in whether there have been any ideas given
to substitute fuels being used, in the East majorly, for relieving the oil and gas
in this area and letting us extend our industry?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me summarize for you the energy program that I recom-
mended to the Congress in January of 1975-14 months ago. At that time, in
my State of the Union Message to the Congress, I recommended the decontrol of
domestic oil on April 1, 1975, and I recommended the deregulation of natural
gas.
Now what has happened from January 15 of 1975 until mid-December of
1975, the Congress pulled and hauled on what to do about domestic oil pro-
duction, and finally, after almost 12 months, the Congress sent to me a bill
that permits me to, on a phased basis, to decontrol domestic oil over a 40-month
1236
