| 447]
May 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
States at any time," he said, "particularly during an election year." Quoting
President Truman, “We are dangerously close to forgetting today that it is the
President's duty to lead the Nation in the conduct of its foreign affairs. This is
a responsibility that cannot be delegated and must not be avoided.”
Mr. Truman was much too seasoned a campaigner and much too realistic
about the two-party system to suppose that foreign affairs would or even should
be a forbidden subject in political debates. That is not what President Truman
said. What he said was that American policy should not be demagogued, dam-
aged, or derailed because of election year considerations.
I agreed then, and now I know how right he was. And I am going to fol-
low his counsel and his example. Nobody in this country expects consensus or
conformity in a democracy, but it is not too much to expect of a mature 200-
year-old nation that its free political debates be conducted responsibly and ra-
tionally in the very sensitive areas of national security and our relations with
other countries.
We know that both friends and foes are watching our election process closely
and listening to every word we say that might affect them in the future. Through-
out his eventful years as President, and after he left office, Mr. Truman repeatedly
said the primary goal of all of his efforts was peace. He had learned about war
firsthand as captain of Battery D in the First World War.
As Commander in Chief, he made some of the most difficult decisions of
World War II, as well as Korea. He was acutely aware that world peace can
only be secured through American strength and the closest ties with our allies.
He had no illusions about our adversaries, but believed nevertheless that no
door should be closed, even to the remotest chance, in the pursuit of peace.
I was just back from carrier duty in the Pacific on April 12, 1945, the day Vice
President Truman was suddenly called to assume the Presidency of the United
States. On the evening of August 9, 1974, after the same thing happened to me.
I was walking through the West Wing of the White House, and I remembered
my first visit there and how easily President Truman made a freshman Con-
gressman feel at home-and he got his $5,400,000.
One of my long-time associates reminded me that one of the first things a
new President usually does is choose which portraits of three Presidents should
be hung in the Cabinet Room. "We will leave President Eisenhower right
where he is," I said, "and of course, I want Abraham Lincoln.” “To balance it
off," this associate of mine said, "how about Andy Jackson" "No, Harry Tru-
man," I said. "Are you absolutely sure?", he asked. "That is my decision," I said.
1516
