[422]
May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
said, "On this I have to agree with President Ford, and I think that the Governor
would agree with him, if he knew anything about the question."
Just so there's no misunderstanding, let me give you the exact words. Here is
the question from Miss Mackin [Catherine Mackin, NBC News]: "On the
Panama Canal, who is right on that? Whose position do you support, Ford's or
Reagan's?" Senator Goldwater—and I quote precisely-"I have to support Ford's
position on it, and I think Reagan would, too, if he knew more about it."
So, let me just conclude with this observation: We have a record that's good,
of taking our country from a very serious crisis and making this country pros-
perous-on the road to prosperity of a greater and more stable basis than this
country has had in a long, long time. We are meeting our challenges abroad
effectively. We strengthened our alliances.
And let me just add this: We are keeping the peace with an all-volunteer
army, and we aren't calling on the draft for the support of our Military Estab-
lishment.
Let me thank each and every one of you for what you have done and
what-as one of your good statewide chairmen has said- what you are going
to do in the next 28 hours. What time do the polls close tomorrow-7:00?
We would hope to have some good news about what time-8:00? 10:00, all
right. [Laughter |
I thank you, and I thank both of these two fine cochairmen of the State. I
thank each and every one of you. Let me assure you we haven't promised any-
thing we can't perform, and we'll perform everything we promised.
And finally, you've made a big effort, you have been loyal, you've been
dedicated, I know you will be effective. Betty and I won't let you down for the
next 4 years.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 6-13 pm. in Room
C of the Civic Center. In his opening remarks, he
referred to Mildred Anne Lee and Charles Chapman.
chairmen, and Hall Thompson and William P.
Acker, finance khairmen. Alabama President Ford
Committee.
423
Remarks at a President Ford Committee Leadership and
Delegate Reception in Birmingham. May 3, 1976
FIRST, I want to thank Charles and Mildred for the superb job that they have
done in organizing the State on my behalf. I can't express my gratitude deeply
enough to both of you.
1462
