May 26
[533]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
and we're going to do our best to expand it beyond the borders of the State of
Ohio.
For more than 40 years, through the vehicle of social security and other pro-
grams, the Federal Government has made a firm commitment of support for
older citizens of our society. I pledge to you that I will continue without hesita-
tion, reservation, to uphold that commitment.
In recent years there has been some very dramatic progress to meet the needs of
America's older generation. I want to do better and, with your help and with
the help of a responsible Congress, I will, and we will. And this is some-
thing that all of us owe to this great generation of Americans, those at the present
and those that are to follow. And as President of the United States, I will do
everything possible in my power to help our Nation demonstrate its deep, deep
concern for the dignity, for the well-being of our older generations.
The social security program, the largest of its kind in the world, will pay
almost $83 billion to more than 32 million Americans in this next fiscal year.
This is more—and I emphasize more than a $10 billion increase over the
current year. And, of course, I suspect many of you know-but I want to
reemphasize it to show my commitment—in my budget for the next fiscal year,
which begins October 1, 1976, I am recommending that the full cost-of-living
increase in social security benefits be paid in that year.
As you also know, however, there are problems facing our social security
system. Next year, unless my reforms are adopted, the Social Security Trust
Fund will run a deficit of nearly $3½ billion. In the next 12 months after that, if
we don't follow a responsible course as I have proposed, the deficit will be $4
billion in a 12-month period.
But let me assure you very emphatically, my administration intends to pre-
serve the integrity and the solvency of the social security system for your bene-
fit and that of all working Americans now as well as in the future. As long as I
am President, we're going to keep our social security protection and every other
retirement program strong, sound, and certain.
In addition to the social security program, we are continuing our commitment
to benefit programs for more than 3 million railroad, military, and Federal
Government employees.
After many, many years of sacrifice and hard work, these Americans have
contributed much to our great Nation. They have earned our respect as well
as our admiration. They have earned more than the prospect of poverty in their
retirement years.
In my budget, the Supplemental Security Income program, or SSI, will pay
1739
