May 3
[422]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
of inflation of over 12 percent per year, for the first 3 months of 1976, the rate
of inflation on an annual basis is under 3 percent. That's a 75-percent reduc-
tion in the rate of inflation. I said we were literally on the brink of the worst
economic condition in this country in 40 years. Shortly thereafter, unemploy-
ment went up, employment went down, and just a year ago, we were in the
depths of this recession. But what has happened in the last 12 months?
We have gained 2,600,000 jobs. We are now employing in the private sector,
in the public sector, more people today than any other time in the history of
the United States-86,700,000.
Wherever you look throughout our economy, whether it's the automobile in-
dustry, whether it is in industrial production, whether it's in spendable income,
everything that ought to be going down is going down, and everything that
ought to be going up is going up.
So, we're doing darn well. Yes, we had a sad and tragic development in the
Pacific-South Vietnam. But let me say this: We have strengthened our alliances
with our friends in Western Europe, with Japan. But what is the judgment as
to whether or not a policy of international relations has been successful? We
haven't given up a thing. We're at peace, and we're going to keep the peace,
because we have the strength to do it.
Now, we've had a few emotional issues raised in this campaign, and as Jack
Edwards said this afternoon—Jack is on the Defense Subcommittee on Appro-
priations. He knows it. He has lived with it as a member of that committee.
Incidentally, I served on that committee 14 years before I became the minority
leader. So my background and information on our national security program is
not just a campaign rhetoric operation, but it's predicated on some background
and knowledge over a long period of time.
But take the words of Jack Edwards, one of our outstanding Members of the
Congress. Jack Edwards said the charge is a phony that this country is not
fully capable, fully able to meet any challenge. And what is our mission? Our
mission is to deter aggression, to maintain the peace, and to protect our national
security. Jack Edwards says the challenge of that is a phony issue, and I agree
with him.
And then we have had the problem raised by our good friend, who says
something about the Panama Canal. You know his words, but did any of you
happen to hear Barry Goldwater yesterday on "Meet the Press"? Well, I unfor-
tunately don't have in my possession the text of Barry Goldwater's interroga-
tion on "Meet the Press." But he was asked this question: "Who is right, the
President or ex-Governor Reagan on the Panama Canal?" Barry Goldwater
1461
