April 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
[327]
AGRICULTURAL COMMODITIES PRICES
[4.] Q. Mr. Ford, my name is Larry Douger, I'm from Temple, Texas, and I
have a question for you. Do you believe in limiting farmer profits by Govern-
ment intervention so that food will be cheaper for domestic use? And do you
believe in limiting farmer profits by Government intervention for use of our
food as bargaining power with other foreign nations?
THE PRESIDENT. I have vigorously opposed any efforts by Congress or econo-
mists or anybody else to put a price ceiling on agricultural commodities. I don't
believe in wage and price controls, whether it is for agriculture or others. That is
not the American system. I am against it.
Number two, I do not believe that American agriculture ought to be used as
a pawn in international diplomacy.
Now, I know there are people in this audience who are then saying to them-
selves, if not speaking up: Well, why did you impose an embargo on grain ship-
ments to the Soviet Union a year ago for 2 or 3 months? There are several very
good reasons.
At the time that embargo—temporary as it was-was imposed, if we hadn't
gotten those ships moving, you would have had grain piled high on the docks in
Houston and New Orleans, you would have had trains stopped because they
couldn't deliver any more grain to the ports on the Gulf and elsewhere. You
would have had your elevators overflowing, you wouldn't have been able to
handle, if this process had gone on for 2 or 3 months. And the courts of this coun-
try, in the course of handling those problems, I don't think would have operated
quickly enough to solve that. That is one answer.
We got the grain shipped. We kept it from backing up on your farms or in
your elevators. And number two, we ended up with a 5-year grain deal with
the Soviet Union, with a minimum of 6 million tons per year.
Instead of having peaks and valleys, in 1972, as I recall, we sold to the Soviet
Union about 10 million tons. The next year we went down to virtually nothing.
The next year we sold a little more. The next year we went down to virtually
nothing. This year at the time the embargo went on, we had sold 9.9 million
tons. Since the embargo went off, we sold another 3.7 million tons for a total of
around 13,600,000 tons.
Now, we have a firm commitment that you are going to have a minimum
stable market of 6 million tons per year, and if they want to buy more, they can.
But we have a guaranteed market for what you produce, and it's a lot better than
having this peak-and-valley proposition. And that was all a part of the negotiat-
ing process.
1085
