[333]
April 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
Furthermore, I don't think you will get two-thirds of the Members of the Con-
gress to pass it, and I don't think you will get three-quarters of the States to adopt
it. So, it is not a realistic solution, even though I think it is too drastic in one
respect.
So, you have a Supreme Court decision that I think goes too far, and some of
the other proposals to amend the Constitution likewise go too far. It seems to me
that we have got to move the decision of the Supreme Court to a position more
to the middle, and I think the Supreme Court when it recognizes the overall at-
titude of the American people, it will respond to a more moderate approach than
the one that they took several years ago. That is the kind of approach that I
would strongly support.
U.S. GRAIN SALES ABROAD
[17.] Q. Mr. President, last year we had trouble-the farmers had trouble-
in the grain deal with Russia that blew everything. It was all over the papers.
And I was wondering-foreign markets or agricultures? We have to have
foreign markets. Are we going to have to look out in the next 4 years as to see
whom and how much we can sell grain to?
THE PRESIDENT. I think that under my administration you have had more
grain sold abroad in the last 2 years than any other administration in the history
of the United States. I think that is good.
Now, the problem you raise of that temporary suspension in 1975 is one that
I think if you are objective and analyze it, was for the benefit of the grain
producers in this country. Bear in mind that it was precipitated by what? There
was an action taken to have a strike on the docks of Houston and New Orleans,
et cetera.
If those strikes had not been ended, you would have had no ships taking
American grain from the harbors, you would have had the grain piled up on
the docks, you would have had the railroads stopped-they couldn't have han-
dled the grain from your elevators and from your farms. It would have been an
unbelievable mess, and it wouldn't have gotten one bushel more of grain
overseas.
Now, the best way to solve it was to get an agreement with the Soviet Union,
as we did, for a 5-year program with a minimum sale of 6 million tons per year
and anything above that that they want to buy.
What does that do? That guarantees the grain producers of this country a
market for 5 years, beginning next September, of 6 million tons per year instead
of 1 year having no sales to the Soviet Union, the next year 10 million tons, the
1112
