[625]
June 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
625
Remarks at a Luncheon Honoring Prime Minister
Takeo Miki of Japan. June 30, 1976
MR. PRIME MINISTER, it gives me a great deal of pleasure to welcome you
once again to Washington, and I am particularly pleased that you, as a long-
standing friend of this country, can visit us during our Bicentennial Year.
When you were here last, slightly less than a year ago, our conversations re-
flected and strengthened the remarkably close relationship which had developed
between our two countries.
In October of last year, we were all greatly honored to welcome Their
Majesties, the Emperor and Empress of Japan for a state visit to the United
States. That visit symbolized in a very important sense the maturing of
American-Japanese relations and the full fruition of friendship and partner-
ship that we have worked so very hard to establish.
When we met last August, Mr. Prime Minister, we pledged to work to main-
tain our close ties and to broaden them, extending our cooperative efforts to-
ward the solution of international as well as bilateral problems. It is my judg-
ment that those pledges have been honored.
In the past year, our two Governments have worked very closely to the mutual
benefit of our people in bilateral relations that is as comprehensive and as im-
portant as any in the world between the United States and other governments.
We have also consulted frequently, candidly, productively on the many pressing
issues that confront the world at large.
Only 2 days ago, we met with our European and Canadian friends and col-
leagues in Puerto Rico. There, as at Rambouillet last November, very significant
progress was made towards securing a more prosperous and a more stable eco-
nomic order benefiting all of our nations. And there, as at Rambouillet, Japan's
participation was absolutely indispensable.
Mr. Prime Minister, on behalf of the people of the United States, let me thank
you and the people of Japan for your most thoughtful and generous gifts in
honor of our Bicentennial celebration—a beautiful, new theater at the Kennedy
Center for the Performing Arts here in Washington, D.C., and more than 2,000
lovely cherry trees to be planted in the cities of Seattle, San Francisco, and Los
Angeles.
I might say, parenthetically, that after the check was given this morning by
1930
