May 3
[420]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
to get rid of some of our agricultural surpluses, and it cost us about $100 million,
as I recall.
Today, the food stamp program costs the United States Government $7 billion
a year, and about 17 million people are currently getting food stamps of one kind
or another, or one amount or another. A year ago, I recommended legislation
that would have actually given more food stamps to those who are needy and
cut off entirely those people who don't need or don't honestly qualify for food
stamps.
Congress didn't do anything, so finally in January or February of this year
I had the Department of HEW issue in the FEDERAL REGISTER the necessary
administrative action to save $1,600 million in food stamps.
That waiting period, after you've given an announcement in the FEDERAL
REGISTER, expires this week and those regulations are going into effect unless
somebody comes in and gets a court order prohibiting it. But we are going to
put them into effect. It will be the first honest attempt to get some control over
the food stamp program.
CITIZENSHIP FOR JONTY SKINNER
[10.] Q. Mr. President, I am a sophomore at Shades Valley High School
here in Birmingham. I'm asking about a swimmer from the University of Ala-
bama who's trying to gain citizenship to swim in the summer Olympics this
year—Jonty Skinner. Would there be any chance, like the winter olympic skier
this year, for him to gain his citizenship? We've had petitions going around
during basketball games and so on. Would there be any way or could you maybe
help us help him gain his citizenship?
THE PRESIDENT. I'm not familiar with the details of that particular case. But
let me say this, that the usual process, if there is no existing procedure under
present law-for one or more of the United States Senators from Alabama or
one or more of the seven Members of the House of Representatives of the State
of Alabama to introduce a bill, to get it passed by the House and Senate, and
send it down to the White House.
That can be done rather quickly if you have the right sponsorship and the
right case to present. I would strongly suggest that if you haven't already, you
get hold of either one of the two Senators or both and the Congressman that
represents the district, try to get the bill through the Congress, and we'll look
into the facts. Somebody from my staff will talk to you or if you'll get the facts
to them, we'll see whether there's any provision in existing law that would
permit me to grant the necessary authority.
1457
