[333]
April 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
I thank you for your generous and very wholesome and warm feeling. It has
been a wonderful conclusion to a wonderful 2 days in Texas.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:55 p.m. in the
gymnasium. In his opening remarks, he referred to
Dr. Lloyd I Watkins, president of the university.
Mayor J. Manley Bryan of Canyon, and Shera!
Strecker, Miss West Texas State University
334
Remarks Upon Vetoing the Hatch Act Amendments
Bill. April 12, 1976
I AM returning to the Congress today without my signature a bill that would
lift the ban against partisan political activity by Federal civil servants. For almost
40 years under the Hatch Act civil servants have been allowed an active role in
the democratic process. They can vote, they can attend rallies and conventions,
they can contribute to the candidates of their choice.
However, the Hatch Act has also prohibited civil servants from engaging in
other far more partisan activities, such as political campaigns. The prohibition
against partisan politics in the Civil Service was written into the law for two
very sound and worthwhile reasons: to assure the American people that their
affairs were being conducted with an eye on the public interest, not a partisan
interest; and to protect civil servants themselves from undue political coercion.
I believe that the concerns that have been valid for the last four decades are
still valid today. The public business of our Government must be conducted
without the taint of partisan politics. I am, therefore, returning this bill to the
Congress without my approval.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1.4% p m. in the Oval Office at the White House.
335
Veto of the Hatch Act Amendments Bill. April 12, 1976
To the House of Representatives:
I am today returning, without my approval, H.R. 8617, a bill that would
essentially repeal the Federal law commonly known as the Hatch Act, which
prohibits Federal employees from taking an active part in partisan politics.
1114
