[352]
April 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
shall we say, clumsy. Do you think that by portraying you this way this has
possibly increased your popularity among the average American?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I have not quite thought of it that way. [Laughter] But
if that is the end result, I am delighted to have that conclusion.
Well, to be serious for a moment, I think in the world in which we live you
have to expect the bitter with the sweet, and you have to take a little kidding
here and there. You have to expect some sharp barbs in a political campaign,
and you have to expect various people in the press and elsewhere to have a lot
of fun with those kinds of things. You just have to let it roll off your back like
water off a duck's back, and that is what I did.
ABOLISHMENT OF SENATE SUBCOMMITTEE ON INTERNAL SECURITY
[10.] Q. Mr. President, I am the editor for the Kokomo High School Red
and Blue. This Saturday I will be attending a student congress here in Indian-
apolis and, at that time, I will be debating a bill which concerns the Internal Se-
curity Committee. For my own personal information at that time I would like to
know, why was the Internal Security Committee abolished last year?
THE PRESIDENT. You are speaking of the Internal Security Subcommittee of
the Senate Committee on the Judiciary.
Well, I think you will have to ask the Senators. I am not a Member of the
United States Senate. The decision was made by a majority of those Members
of the august United States Senate. And why they did it I can't honestly tell you
because that is totally a decision involving the legislative branch, and if I, as
President, or any President ever told 100 Senators what they should do with
internal housekeeping, I don't think any of them would ever speak to me again.
But, in all seriousness, I think that is a matter that you would have to ask the
majority of that legislative body why they did it. They had had it for 30 or 40
years and their decision has to be justified by the people that made that decision.
You ask me about the executive branch and I will answer any question, but to
answer questions concerning the Congress, I am not up there any more.
Q. So you can't answer the question?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. Go ahead.
Q. You don't have the answer?
THE PRESIDENT. I can't give you a-
Q. Mr. President, this will be the last question.
THE PRESIDENT. Let's have one here, one there, and then one back over here.
How is that? Let's have two and two. Go ahead.
1156
