[477]
May 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
I was able to obtain an onsite inspection agreement with the Soviet Union in
the nuclear field. I'm very proud of it, and I think it's good for us and it's good
for all of mankind.
Q. Mr. President, do you feel that you and Mr. Reagan might wipe each other
out and that another candidate might get the nomination for the party off of the
Democrats?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I expect to win in Kansas City.
Thank you very much.
REPORTER. Thank you, Mr. President.
NOTE: The exchange bigan at 12 01 p.m. at the
M.mphis International Airport. In his remarks, the
President referred to Gwern:
Dunn of Tennesse 171-75.
Prvant Winneld
478
Remarks at Dedication Ceremonies for the Commerce Square
Fountain in Memphis. May 14, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Senator Howard Baker, Congressman Jimmy
Quillen, Governor Winfield Dunn, my former colleague, and your former
Congressman Dan Kuykendall, Mayor Chandler, Mayor Nixon, distinguished
guests, fellow Americans:
It is great to be back in Tennessee, and it's great to be here in Memphis, and
I'm glad to see a few Razorbacks here, also. And obviously, I'm particularly
happy to be with you here this afternoon to participate in a small way in this
wonderful Memphis new Mid America Mall, and I congratulate you.
The mall is a perfect example of what can be done to revitalize, to beautify
one of our Nation's greatest cities. You did it with local funds through local
effort and without the involvement of Federal money or Federal bureaucrats.
Congratulations to all of you in Memphis.
As all of you know, we are headed into the final rounds of a contest which I
believe will determine the direction of our country-how it will go, where it
will go in the next 4 years. And I am especially grateful for the very kind words
of Senator Howard Baker. And may I say parenthetically, it has been a great
privilege and pleasure for me to work with him in his areas of special com-
petence and expertise, whether it is in nuclear energy, matters involving in-
telligence, whether it's the whole spectrum of what is good for Memphis, what
is good for Tennessee, or what is good for the United States, and I thank you
very, very much, Howard.
1578
