[560]
June 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
to win California. That, of course, would be the ultimate, but we think we will
do quite well in California.
PROSPECTS FOR A FIRST BALLOT NOMINATION
[3.] HELEN THOMAS, United Press International. Mr. President, how many
delegates do you think you will have when you go to Kansas City, and do you
still think you will win on the first ballot?
THE PRESIDENT. Miss Thomas, I think we will win on the first ballot. At
the present time we have 805 delegates; we expect to win a good share of the
delegates on Tuesday. That will put us quite close to the necessary 1,130, and if
we do well on Tuesday, then I think we only need about 40 percent of the
uncommitted delegates. So, the opportunities look, I think, very good for us
in Kansas City on the first ballot.
BOB SCHIEFFER, CBS News. Mr. President, do you feel that you will have
the delegates before the convention actually opens, or do you feel as Vice Presi-
dent Rockefeller does that you probably will be 20 or 30 votes short, but you
will have them by the time the first ballot comes around?
THE PRESIDENT. We believe that we will have them by the time the first ballot
comes around. There are always those, you know, Mr. Schieffer, who play a
little cozy and have not quite made up their mind. But if we add up the com-
mitted and those that we think are honestly leaning our way, I think by the
first ballot we will have the 1,130.
MR. SCHIEFFER. But you won't necessarily have them by the time the con-
vention opens.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I am not going to argue about whether we have them
by the time the convention opens or not; the most important time is when they
actually cast their vote in that first ballot.
REPUBLICAN VICE-PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE
[4.] MR. SCHIEFFER. Mr. President, let me get back just for a moment to
Ronald Reagan. One of the most interesting things, I think, that has been
found by the CBS-New York Times polls is a statistic that came up the other
day that said if the race were Ford versus Carter, 41 percent of those who call
themselves Ronald Reagan people would defect and vote for Jimmy Carter. It
also says 23 percent of those who call themselves Ford voters would defect to
Carter if Reagan is the nominee. In light of that, aren't you going to have to
1794
