[362]
April 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think it averages out that much and it certainly does
not average out that much if we get the rate of inflation down, because they did
get an unlimited escalator. But if the rate of inflation is down at the range we are
now talking about, it will be less than 33 percent. So, that is one reason we have
got to concentrate on keeping the rate of growth in Federal spending not 11
percent, as it has been for the last 10 years, but cut it to 5 or 5¹; percent and, at
the same time, do what we possibly can in the area of labor-management nego-
tiations because those are important.
THE PRESIDENT'S DEFENSE POLICY
[11.] Q. Mr. President, I would like to ask you, realizing the way in which
you became President under Mr. Nixon, it seems that you might be obliged to
carry through some of his policies. If elected in 1976, would you change any of
these policies and, specifically, I would like to know in foreign relations.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the policies that I have had, both domestically and inter-
nationally, for the last 20 months, have been my policies. And in the next 4
years-let me just give you an example. Based on my analysis, I decided that
when I looked at what Congress had been doing to the military budget for the
last 8 or 9 years we could not stand those kind of slashes. They cut anywhere
from $40 billion to $50 billion in appropriations that had come from Mr. Johnson
and Mr. Nixon. I decided we could not tolerate that, so in January of 1975, 4
months after I became President, I submitted to the Congress the largest mili-
tary budget in the history of the United States. That was my policy, a decision
made by me. This year, in January, I added and again submitted the largest
military budget in the history of the United States.
I believe that what Congress has done to the budget for the Army, Navy, Air
Force, and Marines, if we let it go down as it had been going down it would
have been serious. So, it was myself and not my predecessor who decided that
we needed more for the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, and Marines 18, 20
months ago. So, those are the policies where I have differed with my predecessor
and where I think we are on the right track.
DEFENSE BUDGET
[12.] Q. On defense, you want to spend more on-I know you came out very
strongly in its favor-where do you propose to take the money from to spend
more on defense, to increase the budget?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, what we did-and that is a very good question—
when the budget was put together this year, as I indicated, I thought we had to
1204
