[595]
June 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
For it is as true today as it was in the Old Testament times that "blessed is the
nation whose God is the Lord." I believe that very deeply, and so do you.
In my own life and throughout my career in public service, I have found
in the pages of the Bible a steady compass and a source of great strength and
peace. As cach of my predecessors in the Presidency has done, I asked for God's
guidance as I undertook the duties of this office. I have asked for that guidance
many times since. Just as Roger Williams and his followers found refuge in
Providence, more and more Americans today are turning for refuge to the safe
harbor of religious faith-a fact borne out by your own rapidly increasing
membership rolls.
This rekindling of religious conviction, this new appreciation for Biblical
teaching we see in America today, is an encouraging development as we move
into our third century as a nation. It means that we will resolve to make our
society not only prosperous but noble, not only progressive but constructive.
We may come to know peace not as the mere absence of war, but as a climate
in which understanding can grow and human dignity can flourish.
While we are far from attaining heaven on Earth, we can make this Earth a
better place to live. That must be our constant goal, whether we labor in
government or in the kingdom of God.
The Southern Baptist Convention has sought throughout much of its history
to overcome the enemies of the world-ignorance, disease, poverty, tyranny,
injustice, greed, and war itself—even while setting your sights on the gates of
heaven.
As America enters its third century still battling these enemies, still reaching
for life on a higher plane, we could ask no better inspiration than those words
of a favorite passage of mine from the Book of Proverbs: "Trust in the Lord
with all thine heart and lean not unto thine own understanding. In all thy
ways acknowledge Him and He shall direct thy paths."
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:08 pm at the
Scope Convention Center. In his opening remarks,
he referred to Dr. Jaroy Weber, president of the
convention. Representatives Thomas N. Downing.
G. William Whitehurst, and Robert W. Daniel,
Jr. of Virginia, and Mayor Irvine R Hill of
Norfolk.
1880
