April 10
[325]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
SECRETARY OF STATE KISSINGER
[20.] Q. Mr. President, since we are running out of questioners, may I ask
you two questions? One is, have you seen "All the President's Men" and, if so,
what do you think of it?
And the second question is, what you think of a kiss-and-tell Secretary of
State? [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. I have not seen "All of the President's Men." I have been a
little busy, so I just haven't seen it, and as far I know, I have no plans to see it.
But I don't quite understand the second question.
Q. Well, I think it may have reference to the Secretary of State's enjoying
parties and things like that, and enjoying the limelight.
The President. Well, the Secretary of State-I know from personal contact
with him—works about 14 hours a day if not more. And if he wants to have
some relaxation, I think that is a personal choice on his part. And as long as
he does the job and does it well, which he is doing, I am not going to make any
comment about a couple of hours a day where he relaxes and enjoys himself.
That is his choice.
FORMER PRESIDENT NIXON'S REPORT ON HIS TRIP TO CHINA
[21.] Q. Mr. President, it has been reported that former President Nixon's
report to you on his trip to China had very little useful substance. Is that correct?
THE PRESIDENT. It was very interesting; it was very useful. I read it not once
but several times. I was glad to get it. As I said, it was interesting and useful.
We will have to wait and see how some of his comments relate to what has
happened or may happen in China, but, other than that, I don't think I should
comment.
TEXAS PRIMARY ELECTION
[22.] Q. Both you and Governor Reagan apparently consider yourselves the
underdog in Texas. Who is the favorite?
THE PRESIDENT. I thought from everything I have read that Governor Reagan
came into Texas with the anticipation and expectation that he would win a sub-
stantial majority of the delegates here. That is what I have read from his cam-
paign managers or other people involved in his campaign.
And I looked at the amount of time that he will be spending here, so I believe
he anticipates a substantial campaign. He said he was going to all 24 congres-
sional districts; he was going to maximize his effort. As far as I could tell from
the press statements, he thinks he is a favorite—or his people do.
1075
