[516]
May 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
This real progress against inflation is one of the most encouraging of all the
recovery statistics that I've tried to cite, because it means the strong recovery
that we're experiencing this year will not go bust next year.
But the most important recovery statistic is the index of consumer confidence,
which is double what it was 12 months ago. In economic terms, that means the
American people are spending more money, moving more goods, and even
willing to borrow again for major purchases in the future. In broader terms, it
means the American people are looking to the future with faith instead of fear.
Let me say, I deeply appreciate the opportunity to come before you today and
talk about some of the policies that I have tried to implement in the 21 or 22
months that I have had the honor and the privilege of being your President,
policies that I think have brought us peace and prosperity and trust to America.
Today, if you look at the record, America is at peace. There are no American
boys fighting anywhere on the face of the Earth, and I intend to keep it that
way.
I will maintain that peace because we have unsurpassed military capability
and because we have diplomatic skill. Let me assure you that when we secure
that peace as we have it now-and it has been tough--we will maintain it by
strength and perseverance and leave that legacy of peace for our children and
their children.
I will continue my policies of cutting your taxes, expanding the private econ-
omy, reducing bureaucracy and useless regulation, and restraining Federal
spending. My policies have brought us from the depths of a recession to a sus-
tained recovery and will ensure that runaway inflation never robs us again—
or our loved ones-of the rewards of honest work and lifetime savings.
Finally, I want to finish my most important task-restoration of trust and
confidence in the Presidency itself. As your President, I will promise no more
than I can deliver, and I will deliver everything that I promise.
I need your support to ensure peace, prosperity, and trust for the future, the
future that we owe to our children and to their children. Americans have always
wanted life to be better for our children than what it was for us, because life for
us has always been better than it was for our parents.
What do I see ahead for this great country? I see a strong and confident
America, secure in a strength that cannot alone be counted in megatons, a nation
rejoicing in riches that cannot be eroded by inflation or by taxation.
I see an America where life is valued for its quality as well as its comfort,
where the individual is inviolate in his constitutional rights, where the govern-
ment serves and the people rule.
1686
