[418]
May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
ernor and many public officials; we have a great volunteer organization, and
I think any apathy has gone as far as my candidacy is concerned. So, we think
Indiana will do very well by us. And the other two States, why, we certainly are
underdogs in both Alabama and Georgia, but we are going to make, as we have
in the past, a real sincere and very maximum effort in the time that is allowed.
After all, I do have to be President, and that takes a lot of time, so we can't
campaign as much as my opponent does in the primaries.
Q. Do you rate your chances in Alabama and Georgia as under those in
Indiana?
THE PRESIDENT. As I said, we believe the opportunities here in Indiana are
very good. In Alabama and Georgia—yes, we are underdogs, so there is a differ-
ence in the two situations.
FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION
[4.] Q. Mr. President, with the compromise bill reconstituting the Federal
Election Commission out of conference and pending in Congress this week,
have you had a chance to review it, and can you confirm a report that you will
sign it if it passes as it came out of conference?
THE PRESIDENT. As you know, I strongly recommended that the Congress
only approve the necessary defects in the basic law to perfect the constitutional
questions raised by the Supreme Court. If Congress had done that promptly,
the whole matter would have been resolved a good many weeks ago.
When that bill gets down to the White House, the Oval Office, I will give
it very careful, very precise analysis. But at this moment, I can't make any
categorical statement as to whether or not I will sign it. Congress, as of this
moment, has not yet approved even this so-called compromise bill. So, when
they finish their work, after almost 90 days of inaction, then I will make a
judgment as quickly as possible.
SOUTH KOREA
[5] Q. Mr. President, yesterday Governor Carter said that the South
Korean Government was a dictatorship and has repressed and called for the
gradual withdrawal of troops there and withdrawal of atomic weapons. What
is your view on that?
THE PRESIDENT. The South Korean Government is a very important part
of our overall Pacific strategy. I think to make any judgment of that kind by
Governor Carter, who hasn't had the benefit of the detailed briefings and the
detailed recommendations of our top military leaders, I think his judgment
at this point is not a very solid one.
1436
