[317]
April 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
were struggling not only for the priceless treasures of liberty but for a land of
incredible beauty as well as abundance.
As one early Texan wrote, "It does not appear to me possible that there can
be a land more lovely." With so much worth defending, it is no wonder that
when Colonel Travis was issued a demand for surrender, he answered that de-
mand forthrightly with a cannon shot. It is no wonder that more than 180
rugged men made so valiant a defense here, 140 years and 1 month ago.
This great epic of courage, this great epic of defiance, which is the story of
the Alamo, is without doubt a story quite familiar to those of you who live in
the shadow of this chapel or in the city that surrounds it. But whether the story
is old or new, it is to us and will always be a towering source of inspiration to
every American.
In our time, far removed from the sounds of ferocious battle which filled this
courtyard in 1836, we look back in honor to the more than 180 men who did
battle here and thereby nobly advanced the cause of Texas liberty and inde-
pendence.
All Americans who have gone to battle in defense of liberty share a kindred
spirit with these men of the Alamo. Since 1776 Americans have paid a high price
for the freedom that each one of us and all of us enjoy. We have paid it in the
universal currencies of courage and sacrifice and blood.
We are thankful today that America is at peace and is blessed with freedom.
We rejoice that this day finds no Americans in combat anywhere on the face
of the globe. And yet, we know that [in] peace, as in war we must stand ready
to defend liberty. Brave as these men were who fought in this immediate area
and despite the heavy casualties they inflicted on their advancing enemy, the
garrison that fought here fell at last before an army of superior size and superior
strength. In global terms, America must never give away such an advantage to
any potential enemy, and we never will.
All of our courage, all of our skill in battle will profit us very, very little if we
fail to maintain the unsurpassed military strength which this dangerous world
demands of us. But neither do vast stores of armaments alone constitute
America's greatest strength. Our greatest strength resides within our own hearts,
hearts filled with pride and past achievements, hearts filled with hope for a
promising future, hearts filled with courage for challenges that stand before us.
It is the duty of every one of us, whatever our age or race or station in life, to
ensure that we have something worth defending in America; a land of liberty
and opportunity and justice, a government that guards our rights, defends our
shores, protects our safety, and sustains our progress, and a people of independ-
1030
