June 16
[599]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
a framework for bilateral cooperation designed solely to reinforce NATO
and our common security concerns. To the extent that the Agreement restores
trust and confidence between the United States and Turkey, it also enhances
the prospects for a constructive dialogue on other regional problems of mutual
concern.
I therefore request that the Congress give this Agreement and the accom-
panying draft legislation prompt and favorable consideration, and approve
its entry into force and authorize the appropriation of the funds necessary for
it execution.
The White House,
June 16, 1976.
599
GERALD R. FORD
Remarks on the Assassination of U.S. Embassy Officials in
Lebanon. June 16, 1976
THE ASSASSINATION of our Ambassador in Beirut, Francis E. Meloy, Jr.,
and of our Counselor for Economic Affairs, Robert O. Waring, and of their
driver is an act of senseless, outrageous brutality. I extend to their families my
own deep sense of sorrow and that of all the American people.
These men were on their way to meet with President-elect Sarkis. They were
on a mission of peace, seeking to do what they could in the service of their coun-
try to help restore order, stability, and reason to Lebanon. Their deaths add
another tragedy to the suffering which the Lebanese people have endured
beyond measure.
These men had lived with danger for many weeks and did so with dedication
and disregard of personal safety, as we have come to expect of the Foreign
Service.
The goals of our policy must remain unchanged. The United States will not
be deterred in its search for peace by these murders. I have instructed Secre-
tary Kissinger to continue our intensive efforts in this direction.
I will name a new Ambassador to Lebanon within the very near future to
resume the mission of Ambassador Meloy, which he performed so brilliantly.
I have also instructed the Secretary to get in touch with all of the governments
in the area and with the Lebanese leaders to help identify the murderers and to
see that they are brought to justice. I have also ordered that all appropriate
1885
