[388]
April 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
fortunately, no action has transpired at the present time. Unfortunately, the
prospects do not look good. But believe me, I feel an obligation, and I think
those of us who are healthy, whether we're young or old, owe an obligation to
that segment of our society that are tragically hit by these unfortunate illnesses.
I likewise know that your organization has raised a good many questions
about HEW's 1972 regulations. I'm sure you are not the only organization,
because I am informed that other State organizations comparable to you have
done likewise.
It does appear to me--and I have talked to the Secretary of HEW about it-
that there is an overzealous interference attempted by those regulations. And
I hope we can do something affirmatively to change them.
I have repeatedly said that we want to get the Federal Government off the
backs of people and out of their pockets. We have recommended tax decreases,
additional tax reductions. We are making some headway in reducing Federal
paperwork.
About 6 months ago, I directed the Office of OMB to make a 10-percent
reduction in the total paperwork as far as all Federal agencies and departments
are concerned. And that 10-percent reduction is to be achieved by July 1 of this
year.
Let me put it as simply-but I think as succinctly as I can, as it affects what
all of you are trying to do: Your emphasis should be on taking care of patients,
not making out forms.
It has been a great privilege and pleasure to be here and to say hello to you
and to give you the benefit of some of my views, the programs and policies that
we are seeking to implement for the benefit of all of the 215 million Americans.
And I thank you for the opportunity for saying hello.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:18 a.m. in the Im-
perial Ballroom Center at the Hyatt Regency Hotel.
In his opening remarks, he referred to Douglas Pen-
dergast, president of the Texas Nursing Home Asso-
ciation, and Senator John G. Tower, chairman of
the Texas President Ford Committee
389
Remarks at Dedication Ceremonies for the Montgomery County
War Memorial Park in Conroe, Texas. April 29, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Senator John Tower, Congressman Charlie Wilson,
Mr. George, Mayor Bud Hooper, Reverend Godbey, distinguished guests, ladies
and gentlemen:
1316
