[558]
June 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
Finally, I question the provision of S. 2498 which requires Presidential ap-
pointment with Senate confirmation of the Chief Counsel for Advocacy, re-
directs the role of the Chief Counsel from small business advocate to that of
director of special studies of small and minority business, and requires the
Counsel to transmit reports to the President and Congress without prior review
by other Federal agencies.
With these reservations, I am signing S. 2498. While the Congress and I
share a deep concern for the health of small business and small farms, this
commitment should not result in unnecessary or inappropriate changes in SBA
programs. Therefore, I ask the Congress to join with my administration in
reexamining the parts of S. 2498 which concern me and take appropriate action
to correct the problems I have outlined.
NOTE: As enacted, S. 2498, approved June 4, 1976, is Public Law 94-305 (90 Stat. 663).
559
Remarks at a Birthday Dinner Honoring Catherine Filene
Shouse, Founder of Wolf Trap Farm Park, in Vienna,
Virginia. June 5, 1976
Thank you very much, Rita, Mrs. Shouse, and all of the wonderful supporters
of Wolf Trap:
It is a great honor and a wonderful privilege for me to be here and pay
tribute to Mrs. Shouse. Those of us who have seen the development of Wolf
Trap over the years know how many people from all walks of life have con-
tributed, not only within the United States but the friends of the United States
all over the world.
But Kay Shouse has epitomized Wolf Trap. Wolf Trap means a great deal
to her, but Wolf Trap means a great deal to all of us and will mean a great deal
to literally millions of people for years and years to come.
And let me just say that those of us who have known you and had the
opportunity, Kay, to be the beneficiaries of your wonderful personality, your
gracious hospitality, and your superb generosity to not only this area but around
the world, are deeply grateful to have an opportunity tonight to pay tribute
on an anniversary—I won't mention which one it is. [Laughter] But it is not the
years that count, it is the spirit and the vision and the future.
And so, may I ask all of us to join in a toast to Kay Shouse, who represents
1792
