April 28
[378]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
spread the family around. Jack was down here a week or two ago and was
down, I think, Monday and Tuesday of this week.
What I am saying is that our closely knit family are doing all that we can
to make sure that the policies that we stand for will be the policies of this
country for the next 4 years. I think they can, and we are out to campaign
between now and the convention, day after day after day because we think it's
important that the philosophy that the Republican Party represents hold the
White House for the next 4 years.
I know I can be elected. With your help, with you assistance, we can do a job
and we can do the kind of a job between now and Saturday that will surprise
some of our opponents. Wouldn't that be a great day?
I thank the people who are running for delegate. I will do all I can to make
sure that they individually are elected on Saturday.
Let me thank all of you who are doing the hard work, whether it is at a phone
bank or in the headquarters or raising money or selling our platform and our
program to your neighbors, to your friends, and to any others.
Betty and the Ford children and I are deeply grateful. You are doing a great,
great job, and I can't thank you adequately for your sacrifice and your efforts.
We're just very appreciative.
It is nice to see you, and we look forward to seeing you in Washington some
time in the next 4 years.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:09 a.m. in the Vail
Room at the Sheraton Inn. In his opening remarks,
he referred to Charles B. Calhoun, chairman of the
Smith County President Ford Committee, and Mrs.
George Pearson, member of the Texas State Repub-
lican Committee.
378
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session at Tyler
Junior College, Tyler, Texas. April 28, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Dr. Jenkins, Senator Tower, Mr. Flock, JoNell
Henslee, distinguished public officials, students, faculty and guests of Tyler
Junior College:
I would especially like to thank the Apache Belles for their very warm and
enthusiastic welcome. [Laughter]
Second, it's a great honor to be at this outstanding junior college, one of the
biggest and the very finest in the country, and congratulations to you.
Let me add a special hello to your very popular student body president,
1251
