April 29
[392]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
House Member. We have clashed ideologically for 25 or 28 years. He is on one
side of the political spectrum; I think I am to the other side. So, a contest between
Ford and Humphrey would be a good ideological confrontation. I think it would
be healthy.
Now, Ford and Carter-well, we don't really know what Jimmy Carter
stands for. [Laughter] But if he gets the nomination, we will darn sure find out.
JIMMY CARTER
[8.] Q. Mr. President, did you have the opportunity to read his position
paper in the New York primaries that he handed out to the people there? I
believe it was about 35 pages long, and it went into a little detail.
THE PRESIDENT. I read his foreign policy—all I am quoting in part is what
some of my Democratic friends are saying about his position. And I have read
his foreign policy speech which he gave before the World Council in Chicago,
and it discussed all the problems, but it didn't offer any solutions. It talked
about this area of the world and that area of the world. It was a very outstand-
ing academic dissertation, but it didn't have to grapple with the day-to-day
problems where you have to decide yes or no. Now, I think that's the problem
he's running into when he talks about some of the other areas.
I listened to him explain. I didn't read about it; I listened to him explain his
proposal for national health insurance with the Government in effect control-
ling the whole system. Well, I diametrically oppose that kind of a program.
Q. Mr. President, I am Susan Phillips, and in all probability Jimmy Carter
will get the Democratic nomination. Do you think that it is going to be a tough
race because of the statement he made concerning “ethnic purity”?
THE PRESIDENT. As I said a moment ago, I think a contest between myself and
Jimmy Carter will be a very tough race. I always assume in any competitive
situation, you know, if you prepare for the worst, the best will take care of itself.
So, I assume it is going to be tough.
Now, let me just make a comment or two about Jimmy Carter's comment
concerning ethnic purity. First, I would not under any circumstances use
that term because that term doesn't describe any of the policies that I have or
any of the policies of my administration.
Secondly, I have the job at the present time where I have to uphold the law.
The Constitution says that we must give each and every individual an oppor-
tunity for quality education, for the opportunity to live and work where that
individual wants to. I think that is a mandatory prerogative in this country.
The Supreme Court has said it; it hasn't backed away from it. At the same time,
1333
