[485]
May 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
Let me say this country is at peace. We achieved it, we have got it, and we
are going to keep it with a Ford administration for the next 4 years.
Let me just make this final comment: Those who have known me in Michi-
gan in the 27 years that I have been honored to serve the people of this State,
this country, I have always had the philosophy that you should not promise more
than you can produce and that you ought to produce everything that you prom-
ise. That has been the key word of my public life-straight talk, a feeling that
I represented you, and that I did the very best job that I possibly could.
We have had tough times the last 21 months. I have talked straight to the
American people, they believe me, and I think they want the kind of trust and
peace and prosperity that the Ford administration can give in the next 4 years.
I ask for your help. I think I have earned it. And I will continue to be the
kind of good President that you want for the next 48 months.
Thank you very, very much.
[3.] LANSING (11:28 a.m.)
Good morning, everybody. Betty and I are delighted to be in Lansing. We're
delighted to be home in Michigan. We thank you for coming out in this beauti-
ful Michigan weather. [Laughter] We thank all the bands. We thank all of you.
You know, this train ride, which started in Flint and is going to end up in
Niles, goes through the heartland of Michigan. It's a train ride that is the begin-
ning of victory in Kansas City and November of 1976.
Just a few years ago President Harry Truman won with a whistlestop; Presi-
dent Eisenhower won with a whistlestop; President Ford is going to win with
a whistlestop.
Let me just express Betty's appreciation as well as mine for all of you coming
here, and I want to ask you very seriously for your help and assistance on next
Tuesday. It is very critical that we maximize our vote in that election, and the
help that all of you can give will be very significant-the help that you yourself
give, the help that your neighbors give, your friends, and all of the people that
you know.
And as you talk to your friends, let me give you a few ideas why they ought
to vote for me. I think I have earned the right to be President for the next 4
years.
If you will go back to August of 1974, this country was in a tough situation.
The American people had lost the confidence of the White House. The Ameri-
can people were concerned about economc conditions. We had inflation at
1600
