June 27
[619]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
and expression to help resolve the political problems, so we look to cooperation
and interdependence to overcome our economic problems.
Mr. Governor, I am hopeful that the work of this summit will give a new
impetus to the growth of our worldwide economy and improved international
cooperation and, thus, we will have a positive effect on both the United States
and Puerto Rico.
Again, I thank you, Mr. Governor, for your warm welcome and for your help
in hosting this summit.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:10 p.m. at the
Puerto Rico International Airport, Carolina,
Puerto Rico, where he was given a formal wel-
come with full military honors.
Governor Hernández-Colón spoke in Spanish.
His remarks were translated by an interpreter as
follows:
Thank you, Mr. President.
Mr. President, on behalf of all the people of
Puerto Rico, bienvenidos-welcome to Puerto Rico.
The Comomnwealth is both proud and honored
for this visit by the President of the United States
and to serve as the site for the summit conference
of the heads of state and government of the
United States, France, Great Britain, Germany,
Japan, Italy, and Canada.
The decisions to be made during the 2 days
of the conference will have a profound and last-
ing effect on the economies of the world. We
pray that your deliberations and those of your
fellow heads of state and government be guided
by the highest sense of world community and a
profound commitment to the welfare of the peo-
ples of the world.
We know that during this conference of the
industrialized democracies, special attention and
consideration will be given to the needs of the
developing nations of the world in the interest
of true human harmony and brotherhood.
We in Puerto Rico are convinced that ultimate
success lies in common cooperation and mutual
respect of the kind that exists between Puerto
Rico and the United States and which has been
the basis of our struggle to bring a better life, a
better way of life for all of our people.
Mr. President, please accept a warm and fra-
ternal abrazo in the name of the people of Puerto
Rico and our sincere desire for a fruitful and suc-
cessful conference.
619
Text of Remarks at the Opening Session of the International
Summit Conference in Puerto Rico. June 27, 1976
ON BEHALF of myself and my colleagues and the people of the United States,
I welcome you to Puerto Rico. We have a formidable task ahead of us in these
next 2 days-to address major, common concerns and to identify areas in which
improved cooperation among us can contribute to the well-being of our citizens
and to a more secure and prosperous world.
As we all know, meetings of this sort raise anticipations of dramatic results.
But the important thing about Rambouillet and our meeting here today is that
they are part of an essential and continuing bilateral and multilateral effort by
the leaders of key, industrialized democracies to address common problems and
1919
