April 23
[356]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
I
housing industry, you are going to see more units than the 1,400,000 and the
1,500,000 that will come as a result of our policies in Washington.
I think the 500,000 housing units that will be in either 235 programs, 236 pro-
grams, or section 8 programs-you will see more housing built through Govern-
ment action than we have had in the past, and also through the improvement
of the economy you will have more housing generally without Government
action.
PANAMA CANAL NEGOTIATIONS
[3.] Q. Mr. President, I am much concerned about the position of our
country concerning the Panama Canal. It is my hope that your Government
will deal with this question sincerely and with force, if necessary.
THE PRESIDENT. Let me give you what we are doing and what our aim and
objective is. This administration, like the administration of former President
Johnson and his successor, is determined to keep the canal operating, maintained,
and defended by the United States during the term of any treaty as long as that
canal is economically justifiable. Now that, I think, is a responsible position
to take.
We are not under any circumstances going to do away with the operational
capability, the maintenance capability, and the defense capability during the
term of a long term treaty that will last well within the next century.
Now, some people have alleged—and in this case, my Republican opponent
has alleged—that in effect we should break off those negotiations which were
started 12 years or more ago. I think that is a totally irresponsible position.
Let me tell you why.
Those negotiations were started in 1964 or 1965 because there had been a
riot where 20 people were killed that were Panamanians, and 4 Americans—
serious bloodshed. If we break off those negotiations, as my Republican oppo-
nent wants us to do, you will have riots, more bloodshed, and also you will incur
the enmity, the antagonism of every one of the 25 Latin and South American
countries. They represent 309 million people in this hemisphere. And, in ad-
dition, because of the probability or certainty, I would say, of riots and blood-
shed, we will have to add to our present U.S. military personnel in the Panama.
We have roughly 10,000 American GI's down there now, and if we have blood-
shed and threats of sabotage, we will have to send at least another 10 and
probably 20,000 more Americans down there.
We can avoid all of that by continuing the negotiations for a responsible set-
tlement, and those who advocate breaking off negotiations are irresponsible.
1175
