[656]
July 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
vironment, the education of the young, the care of
the elderly and the sick.
While maintaining the closest links with the
commonwealth and the United States, Britain has
become a member of the European Community,
and this gives us yet another opportunity to work
through a wider grouping for the benefit of all.
Interdependence is a feature of the modern world,
a world that has become smaller, yet more complex.
Today, no nation can stand alone. We depend, as
never before, upon each other.
Mr. President, we live in times of uncertainty,
even of apprehension, and with forces that we can-
not allow to escape from our control. We must be
farsighted and adaptable. But we must never lose
sight of our basic values, not underrate the worth
of what we know to be certain.
One thing is certain, and that is the strength and
permanence of Anglo American friendship It has
grown and prospered down the years. It has be ught
with it benefits beyond measure to our peoples.
May it long continue to flourish for the sake of both
our countries and for the greater git mankind.
Mr. President, I raise my glass to you and to Mrs.
Ford, to the 200th birthday of America, and to the
happiness of her staunch and generous people
657
The President's News Conference of
July 9, 1976
THE PRESIDENT. We have no set format. I don't know whose turn it is—AP, UPI.
REACTION TO BICENTENNIAL WEEKEND
[1] REPORTER. You have nothing in particular on your mind this morning,
Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I am just glad to see you all.
I feel very, very encouraged and very pleased with the results of the Bicenten-
nial weekend. I was pleasantly surprised at the reaction throughout the country.
I think it was well reported by the press that not only in Philadelphia, in Valley
Forge, in New York, and Washington did everything move along extremely
well but it was reported all over the country that there was a real, genuine
resurgence of good American feeling toward one another, toward the country,
that I think augurs for a real good third century. So, we are well on our way,
and I think it will continue.
Frank [Frank Cormier, Associated Press], anything else?
Q. Not right offhand. [Laughter]
REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL NOMINATION
[2] Q. Mr. President, how do you view your race for the nomination with
Governor Reagan? How do you think you stand now in delegates? Are you
confident of a victory, initially?
THE PRESIDENT. I am very confident. The projections clearly indicate to me
that when we get to Kansas City we will have a first ballot victory. You can read
1988
