[468]
May 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
solutions to our National problems. But in many cases, government imposed
solutions have created new problems and mandated excessive costs on our
society. Over the years, we have departed from the reliance on individual initia-
tive and consumer choice. We have expanded government's role and created a
rigid system which has become less able to respond to changing conditions.
The growth of government expanded rapidly in the Depression era. New gov
ernment agencies were created to resolve our economic and social problems-
to help reduce unemployment, to stabilize financial markets, and to protect
failing businesses. As a result of a proliferation of such government agencies
since then-all designed to solve an increasing variety of problems-we have
come to expect the Federal Government to have all the answers-more and bet-
ter housing-an efficient transportation system-improved health care-and
equal opportunities in the job market.
In our compassionate desire to solve urgent human problems, we have given
the Federal Government the power to regulate more and more of our economy
and our way of life. Over the years, regulation has been considered an inexpen-
sive, easy answer to some very complex problems. Now, we are beginning to
realize how high the costs are of what appeared to be the casy solutions of the
past.
Federal programs and bureaucracies have grown geometrically. In the last
fifteen years 236 departments, agencies, bureaus and commissions have been
created while only 21 have been eliminated. Today we have more than a thou-
sand different Federal programs, more than 80 regulatory agencies, and more
than 100,000 government workers whose primary responsibility is to regulate
some aspect of our lives.
My Administration has made the reform of government regulation one of its
highest priorities. We have initiated a national debate on the role that govern-
ment regulation should play in our economy. In the past year, we have achieved
the most significant and comprehensive progress toward reform in three dec-
ades. At the same time we have moved toward a more open and vigorous
free market in which consumers have available a wider range of goods and
services to choose from and where businessmen have a greater opportunity to
run their own businesses.
For example:
-We have reversed the trend to paperwork growth and reduced regulatory
delays.
-We have repealed the Federal fair trade laws which created artificially
high consumer prices.
1554
