[321]
April 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. When I was in the House of Representatives, I consistently
opposed the kind of farm programs that we had where the farmer was pro-
ducing for storage and the Government controlled the surpluses.
In 1972, as I recall, we got rid of that kind of control program, and today the
farmers in wheat and soybeans and corn, produce for the marketplace. And
there are no Federal subsidies in those programs. The net result is our agri-
culture as a whole, in these particular areas, are doing far better than when they
had surpluses with the overhang and the depressing effect on the American
farmer.
The programs we have now are basically sound agricultural programs, with
one or two exceptions. I will be called upon next year, when the present law
expires, to recommend an extension. It is my intention to recommend the
extension of the kind of agricultural legislation we have now for corn, for soy-
beans, for wheat, and several other commodities, and to try to get the Congress
to do the same thing in the one or two exceptions where we are still struggling
with the old programs.
Q. Thank you, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. You can remember, this is a figure we oftentimes forget. Ten
years, Uncle Sam was paying over $365 million a year in storage costs for corn
and wheat, which is $1 million a day. Today, we pay nothing in that regard.
The American farmer controls his product, sells it in the market, and the
Federal Government doesn't have the heavy bureaucratic control that he had
for too long a time. And the net result is American agriculture today is healthier
than it has been in a long, long time.
REFORM OF WELFARE AND FOOD STAMP PROGRAMS
[2] Q. Mr. President, I have to identify myself to tell you that I am also
a graduate of the University of Michigan. [Laughter] The question: I would
really like to know about the Big Ten next year. But I have another one.
THE PRESIDENT. We didn't do too badly in basketball. [Laughter]
Q. Or football. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Except we didn't win. [Laughter]
Q. Second is better than nothing.
What I would like to know is, do you have any workable plan on the boards
right now in order to make our welfare system and the food stamp systems
become more accountable?
THE PRESIDENT. I strongly believe we have one of two roads to follow in try-
ing to get rid of the present welfare programs that just don't work. We can
1044
