April 28
[385]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Now, one other comment. As you also know, I recommended the total de-
regulation of new natural gas. We were successful in getting a partial answer,
not the total answer, in the bill that passed the Senate, the Bentsen-Pearson Act.
Then, unfortunately—and this is a real tragedy-the House of Representatives
failed to enact a rather comparable bill by a margin of three or four votes. That
was really a tragedy. We did all we could to get the House of Representatives
to go along with this Krueger bill, as I recollect. We are going to keep trying.
This is the only way, with the decontrol of domestic oil production, that we
can meet the challenge that we face today with the United States getting more
and more dependent on foreign oil sources.
In October of 1973, we were importing roughly 31 or 32 percent of all the
oil that we used in this country. Today it is 40 to 41 percent and is probably
going to get worse. But I think if we fight for the incentives that are needed
and necessary and use the tools we have, we can make some headway.
I pledge to you, as I said in January of 1975, the ultimate answer to increase
domestic production to get us away from dependence on foreign oil sources is
decontrol in the United States, and I will work with you on it.
Thank you all very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:47 p.m. in the Main
Ballroom at the Sheraton Hotel. In his remarks, he
referred to Robert Mosbacher, national finance
chairman of the President Ford Committee.
I
I
385
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session at a Campaign
Rally in Houston. April 28, 1976
Senator John Tower, Bob Mosbacher, my lady friend on the left, and this fine
young Boy Scout on the right, all of you wonderful Texans:
It's really a great treat and a great honor and a great pleasure for me to be in
Houston today. And I can see very vividly why you consider Houston to be
our finest major city. It's very obvious that you believe that Houston represents
the future of America. It is a great place to live, a rewarding place to work, and
a city celebrated for good times and wonderful, wonderful people. Thank you
very, very much.
I am impressed, obviously, by the way you have grown at the astounding
rate of 1,000 new residents every week. Some experts predict before long Hous-
ton will be the second largest city in the entire United States, and if I was num-
ber one, I would be scared to death. [Laughter]
1287
