April 30
[406]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
406
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session at the Abilene
Jaycees Bicentennial Celebration, Abilene, Texas.
April 30, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Billy Taylor, Senator John Tower, Mayor Hughes,
Mr. Anderson, Dr. Flemming, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
Aren't you glad I brought some rain for you today? [Laughter]
I am really delighted to be in this wonderful auditorium, and I congratulate
all the citizens of Abilene for providing this superb facility, but I am obviously
tremendously impressed and overwhelmed by the warmth of your welcome.
Thank you very, very much.
You know, as a long-time football fan, one of the great names that came to
mind as we landed here in Abilene was Clint Longley, who all of you know as
an outstanding graduate of Abilene Christian University and now an outstand-
ing quarterback for the Dallas Cowboys.
I don't think anybody in Washington, D.C. will ever forget Clint Longley.
[Laughter] They won't forget that long, long, long pass that he threw to beat
the Redskins in the last minute of that Thanksgiving Day game in 1974.
But you know, a winning team also depends on a great coach, and here in
Texas you have one of the greatest coaches in the history of football-Tom
Landry—and I am very proud to say that Wednesday, Tom Landry announced
his personal support for my campaign. And all I can say to Tom is, with his help
and the help of many, many more concerned Texans like him, we're going to
win tomorrow and we're going right on winning for America in the challeng-
ing 4 years ahead.
I really looked forward to being in Abilene today, for I knew that here I would
be among the kind of people who are very, very proud to be citizens of our
great country, the United States of America.
I especially want to thank Billy Taylor and the Abilene Jaycees for giving me
the opportunity of joining with you and saying I am proud of being an Ameri-
can, I am proud of our country and proud of our heritage and proud of our
people, just like you are.
We have a lot to be thankful for and a lot to celebrate in this Bicentennial
Year. In a relatively brief history, we have grown from a weak, struggling nation
on the edge of a continent into the richest and most powerful country in the
history of mankind. We have gone through wars, scandals, riots, assassinations;
1385
