June 6
[564]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
fighting and dying on any foreign soil under the Ford administration. We
have the kind of military strength that can meet every mission and every
challenge, and we have the diplomatic skill to make sure that in the next 4
years we will keep the peace through strength under this administration.
I might say, parenthetically, the Ford administration has no intention what-
soever—there is no reason for it—to commit U.S. troops to southern Africa.
So, when you sum it all up, I think we've got a good record, a record
that can make the American people proud from going to adversity to strength
and from strength to increased prosperity, a restoration of confidence and trust
in the White House, and an economy that will give a job to everybody who
wants a job. That's the program; that's what we are going to do.
Now, let me make one final observation. As I travel around the country, and
I have visited a good many States, I am positive that President Jerry Ford can
be elected President in November. And I am absolutely certain that I can do a
better job than any other Republican candidate for the Presidency to make
sure that Ed Forsythe and Millicent Fenwick and Pat Rinaldo and some other
good Republicans are elected to the Congress in 1976.
Let me make a firm personal commitment. First, I don't promise anything
I can't produce, and I produce everything I promise. And furthermore, Betty
and Jerry Ford won't let you down in the next 4 years.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:55 p.m. at the residence of Mayor Lawrence (Pat) Kramer of Paterson.
564
Remarks at a Republican Party Reception in West Orange,
New Jersey. June 6, 1976
PRETTY WOMEN-you are the heart and the soul of the Republican Party,
and I thank you for what you have done.
Now, we have got a big ballgame on Tuesday, and let me just lay out what
it looks like. We have got the State of New Jersey with 67 delegates. We have
the State of Ohio with 97, and the State of California with 167. I think it would
be a tremendous beginning—because your polls close, I understand, earlier
than the others—if we could have a clean sweep of New Jersey on Tuesday.
That just isn't going to happen. We have got good delegates. I think I'm a good
candidate, but the only way you win in this game is to get people to the polls.
Let me tell you why we need all 67 delegates to the convention in Kansas
1809
