[325]
April 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
We recognize that we came down here as an underdog, but underdogs often
win, and we are sure going to try.
Q. As the incumbent President, why do you consider yourself an underdog?
THE PRESIDENT. That is a good question, because the policies that I have fol-
lowed for the country as a whole have benefited, I think, Texas as well as the
rest of the country. Economic conditions are good in Texas, and they are getting
better, and they will get even better.
I have strongly supported a very up-to-date, modern, unsurpassed military
capability, and Texas has a great many military installations. So, that policy
on my part ought to be fully supported by people in Texas.
But from what I understand, in the Republican primary there is a situation
where we might be an underdog. I am confident that after getting nominated in
Kansas City, against whoever the Democrats nominate, we will do very well in
Texas in November.
REPORTER. Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you all very much. It is nice to see you, and we expect
to have another good day in Texas.
NOTE: President Ford's thirtieth news conference was
held at 9:13 a.m. on Saturday, April 10, 1976, in the
International Ballroom at the Fairmont Hotel in
Dallas.
326
Exchange With Reporters on Arrival at El Paso, Texas.
April 10, 1976
IT'S real nice to be here in El Paso with your fine mayor, Don Henderson, and
I am looking forward to several very interesting, very important gatherings
here. But on this occasion I would like to answer any questions from the local
press.
REPORTER. The continued influx of illegal aliens at a time of high unemploy
ment remains our basic concern in this part of the country. The issue has been
debated for years and is still bottled up in committees, and the so-called Rodino
bill would make it a crime to employ illegal aliens. What is your position on that
measure, and what message do you have in general for Congress on that
position?
THE PRESIDENT. We fully recognize that there is somewhere between 6 and 8
million illegal aliens in the United States, many of them all over the United
States. We think it is a problem that has to be resolved in order to meet that
1076
