June 26
[618]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
honest judgment and opinion that we have a good record to run on as a Re-
publican Party.
We all know that 1974 was a tough year for Republicans, and we all know the
reasons why. We had economic problems; we still had the war in Vietnam; and
we had troubles involving Watergate. But everything has turned around in 1976.
And so a Republican candidate, whether he is running at the local or at the
White House level, can go forward with pride and can go forward affirmatively.
Therefore, I think 1976, regardless of who the Democrats put up, will be a
good year for the Republican candidates. And I pledge to you that I will do my
utmost to work with you, to work with the candidates that you select, and will
work hard to the best of my ability to carry on the kind of programs that have
been good for America.
I thank you very much, and I appreciate your being here. And I conclude with
this observation: We have some refreshments in the State Dining Room. We
have arranged—or Betty has arranged—that if you would like to go up on the
second floor and see the Lincoln Bedroom and see some of the other fabulous
rooms there, that is possible. So make yourselves at home.
I look forward to saying hello and chatting with you. It's good to see you. Let's
march to Kansas City, let's march to November 2 with nothing but victory.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:53 p.m. in the
East Room at the White House. In his opening
remarks, he referred to Mary Louise Smith, Republi-
618
can National Committee chairman.
As printed above, this item follows the text of the
White House press release.
Remarks on Arrival at the International Summit
Conference in Puerto Rico. June 26, 1976
Mr. Governor, distinguished members of the welcoming committee:
I thank you for the very warm welcome upon my arrival at the summit. It
is an honor for the United States to be the host of this conference. I know that
world leaders who are joining me will be as appreciative of the beauty and the
hospitality of Puerto Rico as I am.
In recent years the industrialized democracies have become increasingly con-
cerned with the questions of economic growth and stability. The linkages be-
tween our nations have multiplied. Our economies have become more closely
interrelated. Last November, at Rambouillet, we began a dialog which recog-
nized our mutual concerns and our interrelationships. Today, we come together
1917
