April 10
[333]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Amarillo, and we are going down to Canyon. We will get home, I guess, about
2:30 Palm Sunday morning.
But it has been a great experience. I have been in Texas a good many years.
But I am deeply grateful for the opportunity to meet so many people in this
2-day period and to stop here and see all of you.
We will do our best as President. We hope we have a friend or two in the State
of Texas, because we think our policies both domestically and internationally
are good for America and good for the country and good for all of you and
good for the world as a whole. And we will do our very best to maintain that
record.
Thank you so much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:14 p.m. at the Hilton Inn.
333
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session at a Public
Forum at West Texas State University in Canyon, Texas.
April 10, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Dr. Watkins, Senator Tower, my former colleague
and very old and dear friend, Bob Price, Mayor Bryan, Miss Strecker, distin-
guished guests, students, faculty, wonderful people from Canyon, Texas:
It is a great, great evening, and I am delighted to come here at the conclusion
of 2 wonderful days and have the inspiration of all of you great people from
West Texas State University in Canyon, Texas, and thank you for the very, very
warm welcome.
Not long ago you probably know that I spent a little time in Florida, and some
of my friends in the Miami area, as I was campaigning down there asked me to
bring you a message this evening, a message to the Buffalos. [Laughter] They
asked me to thank you for sending them Mercury Morris. [Laughter]
I have got a long speech here which I have read over, and it is a very good
speech, but I would rather sort of discard it and let the press-they have all writ-
ten about it anyhow-[laughter]-stand by their stories and make a few obser-
vations and comments. And then I would more thoroughly enjoy and far greater
benefit from your questions. So, if you will excuse the discarding of the text and
let me say a few things, and then we will get to the questions. It would be much
more enjoyable from my point of view, and I think it would be a fine climax
to 2 great days here in the State of Texas.
1099
