[400]
April 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
of under 3 percent, we have reduced the rate of inflation by 75 percent. I am
amazed that Governor Reagan wouldn't understand the difference between a
12 percent rate of inflation and under 3 percent. We have a sound, constructive,
affirmative economic recovery for not only prosperity in 1976 but prosperity in
the years ahead.
Q. Mr. President, the wire services are saying that you have now predicted
a victory in Texas tomorrow. How did you come to that conclusion?
THE PRESIDENT. I haven't gone quite that far, but I have said that we were an
underdog. We have made very significant progress in the last 10 days or 2
weeks. Our volunteers are doing a superb job. We are geared up with the last
36 hours, I think, since we have explained our programs for prosperity and our
policy of peace in the United States, the people of Texas are responding to it.
When they respond, I think we have narrowed the gap. And I think we have
an excellent opportunity to win, and we are going to try very, very hard to do so.
Q. Mr. President, Mrs. Reagan was in town last night, and she was asked
about your comments saying her husband doesn't have the experience to run
the country. She countered that by saying he was elected twice by the largest
populous State in the Union. Would you comment on that, sir?
THE PRESIDENT. It seems to me there is quite a bit of difference in running
one State, as big as California is and as important as California is, and trying to
coordinate and effectuate the policies for all 50 States in the Union. Now, a
person who has had the experience I have had, not only as President but as Vice
President, certainly has a background and a knowledge not only to handle our
problems domestically-where we have made very significant headway in com-
ing out of the recession, and we are well on the road to economic prosperity-
and the experience that I have had in the Congress of handling military matters
and foreign policy.
This is a different experience than being a Governor of a single State out of
50. So, when you add up the experience and the success of our policies, I think
that voters of Texas will respond.
Q. To follow up, what do you think the effect of Mr. Humphrey's statements
of yesterday is going to have on the overall campaign?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I certainly can't judge that. That is primarily a Demo-
cratic Party problem at this moment. I think we will just have to wait and see.
Q. Mr. President, I would like to know, concerning your domestic policies,
is there anything in your policies that, should you be elected, will have a direct
effect on this area concerning the natural gas price regulations, independent
trade before nations?
1362
