May 26
[535]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
The Attorney General is in the process of deciding whether or not, where
and when, he should appear on behalf of the Federal Government to see if
the Court, the Supreme Court, won't review its previous decisions in this regard.
And secondly, the Secretary of HEW is submitting to me in a week or so the
alternatives that he would propose to achieve quality education without losing
the constitutional right of individuals so that we can do away with segregation
and, at the same time, achieve quality education.
Now, the various communities in the State of Ohio that are in various stages
of action by various parties, as far as busing is concerned, certainly ought to abide
by the law. But we hope that at least possibly the Supreme Court will review
its previous decisions and possibly modify or change. We can't tell.
But in the meantime local communities, of course, have to obey the law, and
my obligation is to make certain that they do. But we must come back to the
fundamental objective-one, quality education. I believe there is a better remedy
than court-ordered, forced busing.
Q. Mr. President, there are many civil rights groups who believe that the
word “quality education" is a code word that does not, is not in conformity
with the Supreme Court's 1954 decision that we should have desegregated
schools and that separate but equal are not equal. What do you say is your defini-
tion of "quality education?”
THE PRESIDENT. I respectfully disagree with some of the civil rights leaders.
I think the best way to outline how we can achieve better or quality education
and still insist upon desegregation is set forth in legislation under the title of
Equal Educational Opportunity Act, which was passed in 1974.
If the court will follow those guidelines that were included in that legisla-
tion, we can protect the constitutional rights of individuals, we can eliminate
segregation, and at the same time we can give to individuals, the students, a
better educational opportunity and accomplish quality education.
THE "WASHINGTON ESTABLISHMENT" AS A CAMPAIGN ISSUE
[3.] Q. Mr. President, do you feel the Wayne Hays¹ incident and the pros-
pect of a House investigation of Mr. Hays' conduct will fuel what seems to be
an anti-Washington establishment tenor to the Carter and Reagan campaigns?
If so, how will it affect you, and as a long-time member of that establishment,
how will you cope with it?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't believe it's appropriate for me to comment on a house-
keeping problem involving the House of Representatives. I'm sure the House
will take whatever appropriate action should be taken. I can't see, under any
¹U.S. Representative from Ohio.
1747
