April 22
[351]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
financial condition is not so good and neither is Ronald Reagan's so that they are
harmed by the delay ?
The President. Well, of course, the blame for this whole problem goes right
to the United States Congress. As I said a moment ago, Congress has had almost
3 months to correct a very simple deficiency in the law as determined by the
Supreme Court. Three days after the Court acted, on January 30, I said to the
leaders of the Congress, both Democrat and Republican, pass a simple amend-
ment and the whole matter will be taken care of.
It is now almost 90 days and Congress has not yet acted to send a bill to
correct the problem. So when Mr. Udall or Mr. Reagan or Senator Jackson or
any of the others complain, they ought to get hold of the Congress. They have
not completed any action. That would have taken about maybe a page and a
half of very simple corrections to straighten out the mess, and they have wasted
90 days, and they have still not done a thing to correct it.
Q. Mr. President, how important is the Indiana primary to you, especially in
light of the statement by Rogers Morton' that you may be in trouble in Alabama
and Georgia the same day and that Texas, 3 days earlier, is a toss-up?
have?
THE PRESIDENT. Indiana is a very important State. I have a great affection for
Indiana. Michigan and Indiana have gotten along together for a good many
years. I have a special personal reason for wanting the support of the people of
Indiana. I know many people here. I always enjoyed being here. And, aside from
the political side, I would certainly like to get a successful campaign here in
Indiana so that we could have the delegates when we go to Kansas City.
Q. The first question that we asked was, how much money do you
THE PRESIDENT. Well, our campaign for the moment is in the black, but we
have done that by, I think, spending our money that has been contributed in a
very responsible way. We have not wasted the President Ford Committee money
and, as a result, we are in the black. We don't owe anybody; we are operating in
the black instead of the red. I kind of like to operate a balanced budget, whether
it is in the Federal Government or whether it is in the President Ford Com-
mittee. So, we have been husbanding our funds.
Some of these other candidates have apparently either wasted their money
or have not planned it properly so they are in some trouble. But the President
Ford Committee, because we spent it wisely, we have handled it well, we are
in the black.
Q. Would you tell us what is the effect on the chances for an arms limitation
1 President Ford Committee campaign manager.
1147
