[398]
April 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
And I again instructed them that I wanted some additional progress in their
efforts to do what they could to eliminate some of these out-of-date rules and
regulations.
Secondly, I met with the Democratic and Republican leadership of the Con-
gress and urged them in the Congress to work with me to amend or eliminate
some of the legislation that is on the statute books which mandates that the
executive branch do this or do that or this.
The Congress has to cooperate and then, in addition, we have sought to, or we
have worked with the Office of Management and Budget to get them to get
the various agencies of the Federal Government to eliminate 10 percent by July 1
the paperwork that all departments require of citizens and business throughout
the country.
I got an interim report about a month ago and actually there has been a re-
duction of 4 to 5 percent since I gave the order that there be a reduction and by
July 1. We are going to make certain that there be that 10-percent reduction
in the paperwork that is thrust upon the American society.
Now, in addition, I have met with the Cabinet, because many of the depart-
ments issue regulations that I think are unnecessary and can be eliminated. And
we are getting periodic reports from the department. We are making headway.
It is not as much as I would like, but everybody in the Federal Government, in
a position of responsibility, knows what my view is, and they better perform.
Q. Mr. President, this will be the last question.
THE PRESIDENT. Can we have two more?
PANAMA CANAL NEGOTIATIONS
[10.] Q. Mr. President, very recently Ambassador Ellsworth Bunker has
testified to a committee of Congress that he had written instructions from you
to negotiate on the Panama Canal and to turn over jurisdiction to the Pana-
manian Government, in about 3 years, the Panama Canal Zone.
Now my question is this: In view of the fact that most of us Texans—and I
think most Americans-don't want to see us give up the Panama Canal be-
cause it is very important to our defense all over the world, essentially, I would
like to ask you, can you give us any assurance that you won't allow the Panama
Canal to slip away from us? After all, the American people bought the Canal
Zone, they built the canal, they keep it up, and it is the only way that Soviet Rus-
sia will not have control of another very important waterway in the world.
THE PRESIDENT. Let me assure you that this administration will under no
circumstances give up any right of transit, any national security interest as far
1356
