[630]
July 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
of military assistance and military assistance advisory groups after fiscal year
1977 would result in a serious impact upon our relations with other nations
whose security is important to our own security and who are not yet able to bear
the entire burden of their defense requirements. That concern remains. H.R.
13680 retains language recognizing that it may be necessary and desirable to
maintain military assistance programs and military assistance advisory groups
in specific countries even after September 30, 1977. Accordingly, this bill will
not deter the executive branch from seeking at the appropriate time the neces-
sary authority for the continuation of such programs as the national interest of
the United States may require.
H.R. 13680 will require that many changes be made in present practices and
policies regarding the implementation of security assistance programs. Some of
these new requirements I welcome as distinct improvements over existing law.
There are others for which the desirability and need is less clear. Nevertheless, I
shall endeavor to carry out the provisions of this bill in a manner which will
give effect to the intent of the Congress in enacting them. As time goes by and
experience is gained, both the executive and the Congress will come to know
which of the provisions of this bill will be effective and workable, and which
others require modification or repeal.
This bill recognizes that security assistance has been and remains a most im-
portant instrument of United States foreign policy. My approval of H.R. 13680
will enable us to go forward with important programs in the Middle East, in
Africa, and elsewhere in the world aimed at achieving our goal of international
peace and stability.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 13680, approved June 30, 1976, is Public Law 94-329 (90 Stat. 729).
631
Remarks at Dedication Ceremonies for the National
Air and Space Museum. July 1, 1976
Mr. Chief Justice, Mr. Vice President, distinguished Members of Congress, Sec-
retary Ripley, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
This beautiful new museum and its exciting exhibits of the mastery of air and
space is a perfect birthday present from the American people to themselves. Al-
though it is almost impolite to boast, perhaps we can say with patriotic pride that
the flying machines we see here, from the Wright brothers' 12-horsepower bi-
plane to the latest space vehicle, were mostly "Made in U.S.A."
1938
