[522]
May 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
but in contrast, the full surge of economic recovery. Eighty-seven million, four
hundred thousand Americans are on the job today. That's an alltime record,
and I'm darned proud of it.
In the last 12 months, we have added 3,300,000 more people working in Amer-
ica. In the last month, we added 710,000 more people on the job in this great
country. There is real evidence of a new prosperity, but I will not be satisfied
until every American who wants a job can find a job. That is my criteria.
Inflation has been cut from the 12 percent of 2 years ago down to 3 percent,
or under, for the first 4 months of 1976. That's progress—a 75-percent cut in
the rate of inflation. I'm proud of it. We will do better in the months ahead.
In dealing with this irresponsible Congress-not good people like Barry Gold-
water—[laughter]—I vetoed 49 bills; 42 of them have been sustained, saving
the American taxpayer $13 billion. And you know, if the Congress sends any
more of these budget-busting bills down to the Oval Office in the White House,
I will use my veto again and again and again.
You know, it's about time that you got to spend your money the way you
want to spend it instead of letting the Congress spend it for you. I'm totally de-
termined that your tax dollars work for you as hard as you work for them.
I want the government to spend less, to tax less. Last year, we reduced Fed-
eral incomes taxes. This year, I proposed a $10 billion tax reduction to begin
July 1, which would raise the personal exemption-listen very closely-would
raise the personal exemption from $750 per person to $1,000 per person. I know
Barry Goldwater will vote for it, and we can do this if you get the pressure on
the Congress to act between now and July 1 of 1976.
Let me assure you, I love this fight with the Congress, this irresponsible Con-
gress that wants to spend your money, doesn't want to give you the kind of a
tax relief that you ought to get.
Now, in addition to the kind of economic security and progress that we need
in America, we have to be certain and positive that the national security of this
great country continues.
Today, America is at peace. There are no American boys fighting anywhere
in the world, and I intend to keep it that way. To make sure that our military
strength remains unsurpassed in the future, I proposed the two largest military
budgets in the history of the United States. But between 1964 and 1974, the Con-
gress cut $50 billion out of military budgets submitted by two previous Presi-
dents and reduced the share of national security funds to the lowest in the his-
tory of the United States since the end of World War II.
1702
