[406]
April 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
eral payroll, by adding one spending bill after another. That is not the way we
should have done it and that is not the way we did do it.
Let me say this, that one of the things that I feel I can take the most pride in
is that I combated the Congress. They sent down one spending bill after an-
other; I vetoed 48 of them; Congress has sustained 39, and in the process we
have saved the taxpayer $13 billion.
One of my strongest supporters and best friends in the Congress, a man who
has done a superb job as your senior Senator, John Tower-I thank you, John.
One of the great dangers and fears that I have is that government could
burgeon, it could grow, it could almost do it behind our back if we aren't care-
ful. One of the basic truths that we have to remember and recall is that a gov-
ernment big enough to give us everything we want is a government big enough
to take from us everything we have.
As your President, I want more than prosperity for us as fellow Americans.
I want to lead our country into a third century of progress on all fronts. I foresee
a century of individual and national fulfillment, a century in which we can
adapt and perfect our government and its institutions so that they more com-
pletely serve the needs and the aspirations of the American people.
I want to strengthen our tradition of individualism to make our institutions
less remote and more responsive to the needs of the people that they serve.
I want our Bicentennial celebration to mark the beginning of an effort by
government to win back the trust of the disillusioned among us in this great
country. I want to heal the antagonisms, the divisions that exist in our society,
and to convert the cynicism and the despair into active, constructive concern
for our country where so much still needs to be done.
I want to keep America strong militarily, technologically, scientifically, agri-
culturally, but most of all morally, for only through the strength, that strength,
can we meet and overcome the many challenges to our way of life.
I have really enjoyed very much this 3-day visit to the great Lone Star State.
I have enjoyed having the eyes of Texas on me personally and my record dur-
ing this very spirited primary campaign.
Tomorrow, I would deeply appreciate having a lot of the votes of Texas sup-
porting me and the policies of peace and freedom and prosperity for which I
stand.
Thank you very kindly.
Now, I am looking forward to, and I will be delighted to respond to the
questions.
1388
