[356]
April 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. Well, first let me thank you for your comments concerning
the Mayaguez. That, I think, should be a good warning to any country that
thinks they can challenge us. If any country does any act of that kind, I think
the Mayaguez incident and the action we took ought to be a fair warning to
them to the decisiveness of the Ford administration.
Now, would you repeat the other question?
Q. I was wondering what your stand is on the Concorde being allowed to
land in the United States?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, Secretary Coleman, the Secretary of Transportation, had
that matter for his consideration, and he has made a recommendation, issued the
necessary orders that permits a very limited landing program of the British and
French Concorde at Kennedy Airport in New York and Dulles Airport in
Washington, D.C., for a 16-month period. So that through those operations-
taking off, landing, and flying-we can get specific, technical information that
will let us decide whether on the basis of noise or any interference with the en-
vironment, air or noise or otherwise—and at the end of that 16-month trial period
there will be an evaluation made by the Secretary of Transportation as to whether
those flights should be continued.
But the only way you can find out is to actually undertake them on a limited
basis for a limited period of time, and I fully support Secretary Coleman's
decision.
U.S. ROLE IN WORLD AFFAIRS
[11.] Q. Mr. President, Mr. Kissinger has been characterized as having a
deeply pessimistic view of the long term future of Western democracy and believ
ing that we should cut a deal now before it is too late. I stood in the Rose Garden
last week and heard you praise Secretary Kissinger in the most glowing terms.
I know you are not a prophet, sir, but I wonder whether you share Mr. Kis-
singer's long-range views, and if not, how do you evaluate our long term will to
survive?
THE PRESIDENT. In the first place, those allegations made that Secretary Kis-
singer is pessimistic about the long-range prospects of the United States are totally
inaccurate. I spend a good period of time every week with the Secretary of State
because we have a number of foreign policy matters that come up virtually every
day, and so I know precisely how he feels. His feeling is quite the contrary. He
feels that with the right kind of leadership and the right kind of programs, the
United States and the Western democracies-the free countries of the world-
are going to prevail, not lose, and that is the way I feel.
1180
