[605]
June 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
April 7, 1976. The Protocols were formulated by a Conference which met in
London on February 20, 1976.
I transmit also, for the information of the Senate, the report of the Depart-
ment of State with respect to the Protocols.
The Protocol for the Third Extension of the Wheat Trade Convention, 1971,
extends the Convention until June 30, 1978, and maintains the framework for
international cooperation in wheat trade matters. It also continues the existence
of the International Wheat Council.
The Protocol for the Third Extension of the Food Aid Convention, 1971, also
extends until June 30, 1978, commitments of parties to provide minimum annual
quantities of food aid to developing countries. The United States intends not to
deposit ratification of this Protocol unless the other major donors become a party
to the Protocol and formally record this intention by a written declaration to
that effect made at the time of signing.
Both Protocols provide that instruments of ratification shall be deposited no
later than June 18, 1976. The Wheat Council and Food Aid Committee may,
however, grant an extension of time to any signatory government that has not
deposited an instrument of ratification by that date.
It is my hope that the Senate will give early and favorable consideration to the
two Protocols so that ratification by the United States can be effected and instru-
ments of ratification can be deposited without undue delay.
The White House,
June 18, 1976.
GERALD R. FORD
NOTE: The protocols are printed in Treaties and Other International Acts Series (TIAS 8902).
606
Remarks at a Ceremony Honoring U.S. Officials Slain in
Lebanon. June 19, 1976
Mr. Secretary, Mr. Meloy, Mrs. Waring, members of the family, distinguished
guests, ladies and gentlemen:
This is a moment of sadness for America. The men who were so ruthlessly
murdered in Lebanon embodied the finest traditions of our country. Their dedi-
cated professionalism, their willingness to sacrifice, their devotion to the service
of peace all were reflected at every step of their careers.
The tragedy that befell them has struck deep in the hearts of their countrymen.
1894
