April 30
[398]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
as the Panama Canal is concerned. But I want to straighten out the record con-
cerning several things.
The 1903 treaty with Panama is quite a different treaty from, for example,
the purchase of the Louisiana Territory or the purchase of Alaska. I was asked
the question down at Baylor University yesterday, the young man said, "The
Panama Canal brings us great revenue."
Well, that is completely and totally inaccurate because at the time of the first
treaty, the United States agreed to pay $250,000 a year for the right to use that
territory, not in a sovereign way, but the right to use that territory, 10 miles wide
and 51 miles long, for the construction and operation of the canal.
And let me say another thing, that I had to correct the record for this young
man, was that that treaty has been revised a number of times, including the
increase in the compensation that the United States pays Panama for the use
of their land from $250,000 a year. Today we pay Panama $2,500,000 a year.
So, that treaty that was initially signed in 1903 has been amended a number
of times. But let me say that following the bloodshed of 1964, a great Texan—I
didn't always agree with him, I suspect many of you didn't-decided it was in
the best interest of the United States to negotiate in order to avoid bloodshed in
the future, in order to avoid antagonizing 25 South American and Latin Ameri-
can nations, including your border neighbor Mexico, and 309 million Latin
Americans and South Americans and to permit that canal to be operated in per-
petuity as long as it's a viable economic method of transportation.
He decided that negotiation was a lot smarter than having all of these other
things take place. We negotiated from 1965 right until the present time, and
any treaty that is signed will be of a maturity date 40, probably 50 years, which
means 25 years in the next century when the size of that canal, the usability of
that canal, the economic viability of that canal could be quite different from
what it is today.
It will be over 100-some years old, and the transportation capabilities for the
use of that canal could be quite different from what they are today. So, what
makes sense to me and makes sense to two of my predecessors, that during the
term of that 50-year treaty we, the United States, have the capability and the
responsibility to defend it, to operate it, and to maintain it.
And I think that is a responsible position to take and that we are guaranteed
after the end of a 50-year treaty the right for us and for all nations to use that
canal. I think that is a responsible position, and as my opponent has said, he
believes we ought to stop negotiations. I think that is complete and total irrespon-
sibility because it will inevitably lead to bloodshed; it will inevitably lead to
1357
