May 25
[528]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
income tax exemption increased from $750 per person to $1,000 per person.
Middle-income taxpayers in this country deserve a fair shake, and they haven't
gotten it in the last 10 years.
Let me make it absolutely certain and positive, I will fight this Congress
every step of the way to get the kind of tax relief that the American people
deserve.
But as we strengthen America's economic security, we must, of course, in-
crease America's national security. Today, America is at peace. There are no
American boys fighting anywhere on the face of the Earth, and I intend to keep
it that way. We have the best trained, the best equipped, the best led fighting
force in the world today, and they are all volunteers. The Ford administration
ended the draft, and we have an all-volunteer military force that can handle
any problem, any mission. It's unsurpassed in its capabilities to defend our na-
tional interest, to deter aggression, and to keep the peace, and we should be
proud of their job.
But frankly, we have a problem. In the last 10 years, from 1964 to 1974, the
Congress cut $50 billion from budgets sent to Capitol Hill by various Presidents.
Last year, the Congress cut $7 billion out of my defense appropriation bill. We
aren't going to stand for it, because the United States needs the kind of a pro-
gram that protects our way of life, our precious freedom, and the future of our
children and our grandchildren. And I promise you I will fight for the kind of
a program that we need, that we can have, that is essential for freedom for all
of us in the future as well as in the present.
With a mandate from all of you here in Walnut Creek and the surrounding
communities, let me say I will finish the most important job—the greatest and
most important, as I see it—the restoration of confidence and trust in the White
House itself. As your President, I promise no more than I can deliver, and I
promise I will deliver everything that I promise.
I need your support to ensure peace, returning prosperity and trust, the good,
secure, fulfilling future that we owe our children. Americans historically have
always wanted life to be better for our children than it was for us, because life
for us has been better than it was for our parents.
What do I see ahead for this great country as we enter the third century of
our independence? I see a strong, confident America, secure in a strength that
cannot be counted in megatons, a nation rejoicing in its blessings that cannot
be eroded by inflation or by taxation. I see an America where life is valued for
its quality as well as for its comfort, where the individual is inviolate in his con-
stitutional rights, where the government serves and the people rule.
1727
