May 7
[442]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
My policy, then, is for you to grow all you want and all that you can sell, for
the American consumer to have a plentiful supply of good food and quality
fiber, for our agricultural exports to sell at record volume at market prices, for
the government to stay off your backs and off your farms except where you want
them, and for family farms to stay in the family.
And as I close, I am proud to say that I have a Secretary of Agriculture, a
good friend of yours, Earl Butz, working with me to make our farm policy
successful. To reflect the Secretary's dominant role in all farm policy, both for-
eign as well as domestic, I have appointed Earl to serve as a Chairman of my
Cabinet-level Agricultural Policy Committee. But he is the first to admit we
need the advice of the farmer as well as the government official.
I can assure you I will reemphasize it and reaffirm it: This Cabinet commit-
tee in no way whatsoever replaces the many committees sponsored by the Agri-
cultural Department through which farmers give us guidance on everything
from grazing problems to commodities to research activities. You have helped
us make the farm policies we followed the last 21 months. More importantly,
you have helped make those policies succeed. We are a good team, and I would
hate to see a good team broken up right in the middle of the ballgame.
That's why I am in Nebraska, my native State, asking for your support next
Tuesday, next November, and for the next 4 years.
Thank you very, very much.
QUESTIONS
Q. Mr. President, I am president of the Nebraska Livestock Feeders Associa-
tion. We want you to know that we appreciate this opportunity to personally
ask you questions about government which concern us. Since 1973 the livestock
industry has been served some catastrophic blows by the Federal Government.
In 1973 the administration opened up the import quotas, first of all, and sec-
ondly, price controls were put into effect. The net result was upsetting the
normal marketing patterns, causing prices to decline and thus tremendous loss
to the livestock industry.
The question I have for you, Mr. President, is if similar conditions to '73
arose, would your administration have to bow to consumer pressures at our
expense, or would it stand by the industry which has produced red meat so
efficiently and abundantly in the past?
THE PRESIDENT. First, I'm sure you recognize I was not President in 1973 or
whenever the price ceilings were placed on cattle. And I think you know that I
have fought a very hard battle against outside forces, against some Members of
1495
