May 28
[540]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
540
Remarks on Signing the United States-Soviet Treaty on
Underground Nuclear Explosions for Peaceful Purposes.
May 28, 1976
Mr. Secretary, Mr. Ambassador, distinguished guests:
The treaty we are signing today is an historic milestone in the history of
arms control agreements. For the first time it provides for extensive cooperative
arrangements for onsite inspection and observation in monitoring underground
nuclear explosions.
This means that the Soviet Union will allow American observers to witness
certain larger tests on their territory, and if we should have such a test, we
would reciprocate and allow Soviet observers here in order to verify at firsthand
that our control agreements are being adhered to.
This accomplishment in agreeing to onsite observation demonstrates that our
two countries can soberly negotiate responsible and beneficial agreements de-
spite the difficulties of the challenge. The negotiations culminating in this
treaty raised very unique problems. The discussions were long and complex.
But the result: Real progress has been made in the field of arms control. A
significant step has been taken toward a more stable, peaceful world and a
more constructive relationship between the United States and the Soviet Union.
The new treaty, together with the Threshold Test Ban Treaty, will govern
the conduct of every underground nuclear explosion for military or peaceful
purposes for both parties. The two treaties impose the same limit of 150 kilotons
on all individual underground nuclear explosions.
The ultimate purpose of the network of arms control agreements we have
already negotiated and which are currently being negotiated, is to bring about
a more peaceful world. Pushing back the shadow of nuclear war must be our
constant concern. That, indeed, is the underlying purpose of all of the numerous
agreements for constructive cooperation which our two countries have con-
cluded in recent years.
I welcome the accomplishments we mark here today. And I hope it will lead
to further achievements in building a stable and a just peace for our two peoples
and for all mankind.
I will send these two treaties to the Senate for the earliest possible considera-
tion and urge that the Senate grant its advice and consent to their ratification.
I will now sign the Treaty and the Protocol on Underground Nuclear
1763
