April 28
[383]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
383
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session at a Forum
in Houston. April 28, 1976
Thank you, John. Senator Tower, Jim Norman, Tom Smith, Vernon Bratten,
distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
It is really a great privilege and a very high honor to join you for this meet-
ing of the Houston Builders Association. I congratulate all of you for the part
that you've played in the amazing growth of the Houston area in recent years.
You know better than I that you have doubled the office space in Houston in
just a short span of 6 years and that you rank third in the Nation in cumulative
construction activity over the past 10 years.
With a thousand new residents every week and a generally favorable mort-
gage interest rate, housing starts here in Houston are among the Nation's most
encouraging, with 4,388 in the last quarter alone. And there is an anticipated
demand in this great area for 28,000 new units between now and 1978.
Net, new savings in Texas thrift institutions in January of this year were 54
percent higher than the same month last year. Twice as many building permits
were issued in the first quarter of 1976 as in the first quarter of 1975, and nearly
three times as many in March of this year as in March of ’75.
Another stimulus to construction in the Lone Star State is the Federal aid
to highway legislation which I will sign next week. This legislation will pro-
vide Texas with $260 million for highway construction and improvements
between June of this year and September of 1977, and another $317 million in
fiscal year 1978. That's a lot of money and a lot of construction.
Nationwide, where construction activity has been much slower recently,
we're also seeing some very, very encouraging signs of progress. Building per-
mits throughout America in each of the first 3 months of this year have been
100 percent greater than in the same 3 months of 1975.
With a balanced Federal budget-and I fully intend to get one by fiscal year
1979—we can get the Government out of competition with you in the private
money market. We can let your business get bigger instead of letting the Fed-
eral Government get bigger and bigger.
For the present, your industry is already being helped by the economic re-
covery that we're enjoying throughout America today. We're making very
encouraging progress in combating both of our most powerful economic en-
emies-inflation as well as recession.
1273
