[634]
July 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
634
Remarks Upon Receiving the Report of the National
Commission on the Observance of International Women's
Year, 1976. July 1, 1976
Thank you very much, Jill, Betty, and Senator Chuck Percy, and other Members
of Congress, and other members of this group:
It's wonderful to be here, and let me thank all of the members of the Com-
mission for the job you have done in identifying the barriers which block
women's full participation in our national life.
At this point, let me express Betty's absence-I know all of you know how
strongly she feels about ERA. She said to me, "You send me out to all of the
tough places to make speeches. Maybe I can ask you to come down and speak
to a group that is sympathetic to my viewpoint." And I said, "Well, I am sym-
pathetic to their viewpoint." So, she has been working so hard on the campaign
trail that she just asked your indulgence in understanding why she isn't here this
afternoon.
I do want to thank others who have contributed to this report, many who are
here and many who are not. And you have my full assurance that your report
will be taken with great care, the same care that you have taken in the prepara-
tion of it.
Jill, I regret that you won't be able to continue as presiding officer of the Com-
mission, but I am pleased that we will still have the benefit of your talents as a
member of the Commission.
ANNOUNCEMENT OF APPOINTMENT OF PRESIDING OFFICER
This afternoon, it is my privilege to announce the appointment of Betty
Athanasakos as the new presiding officer. Many of you know that Betty is a
practicing lawyer and a former municipal judge. She served as Chaircoperson
of the HEW Advisory Committee on the Rights and Responsibilities of Women,
and as a member of the President's Task Force for Women's Rights and
Responsibilities.
Betty will be ably assisted by Ersa Poston as vice presiding officer. Ersa is the
past president of the New York State Civil Service Commission.
Today, the Commission enters a new phase. You are now charged with the
planning and convening of 56 State and territorial conferences and the National
Women's Conference itself.
1946
