April 13
[338]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Thomas Jefferson's achievements range from our decimal system of coinage
to the great area of our Nation itself, which he doubled through the Louisiana
Purchase. But Thomas Jefferson's contribution to our Nation's history is far,
far more than the sum of these diverse accomplishments. The very range of
his interests has heightened his impact on later generations.
It is a quirk of history that Thomas Jefferson and John Adams, both signers
of the Declaration of Independence, died on July 4, 1826, 50 years to the day
of its adoption. John Adams' last words were, "Jefferson still lives." History
shows Adams was wrong, because Jefferson had died a mere 5 hours earlier.
But history also has confirmed Adams' words, because Thomas Jefferson lives
in each of us.
We are all his successors, and it is up to us, not history, to see that Jefferson's
faith survives. Great citizens and their great thoughts are not just for their own
time but forever. And Jefferson's true importance lies in the fact that he con-
tinues to speak of the American experience.
In every generation, Americans have turned to Jefferson for comfort and
inspiration. They have found new meanings, often conflicting meanings, in
his words. In their search for Jefferson's spirit, Americans have sought them-
selves. To Abraham Lincoln, the principles of Jefferson were the definitions and
axioms of free society, a society he was struggling to preserve. And Lincoln,
the Great Emancipator, gave those principles new significance.
Three generations later, another great American leader, Franklin Delano
Roosevelt, locked in another war for freedom, dedicated this memorial as a
shrine to freedom. On the 200th anniversary of Jefferson's birth, he called for
a commitment to Jefferson's cause not by words alone, but by sacrifice.
In this 200th year of the Nation Jefferson helped to found, it seems our
America has changed so much that when we compare it with Jefferson's
America, the differences are more striking than the similarities. We are no
longer a young, isolated, agricultural nation, but an industrial giant in a nuclear
age.
Thomas Jefferson would have been the first to recognize that different times
demand different policies. He stressed that the Earth belongs always to the living
generation. In our Bicentennial Year, we turn once again to Jefferson's words
and find them surprisingly modern. Jefferson's principle of limited govern-
ment, his concern about excessive centralization of governmental power at the
expense of State and local responsibility and individual freedom are as much
a part of the debate of 1976 as they were in 1776.
1119
