[378]
April 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
are not going to supply any arms to any insurgents. We don't think that is the
way for the United States to project itself as a country that wants to help solve
some of those controversial problems there. Under no circumstances are we
going to provide arms to any of the insurgents. We simply believe in self-deter-
mination, guarantee of minority rights, and the nondomination of any coun-
try by an outside force.
FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION
[8.] Q. Mr. President, there's been quite a bit of controversy concerning the
national election committee. I was wondering what was your stand and what ac-
tions have been taken to give the candidates further money to further their
campaigns for the Presidency?
The President. In 1974 Congress passed the present law. The Supreme Court,
on January 30 of this year, said that there were certain provisions of that law
that were unconstitutional, including how the Federal Election Commission was
established.
A few days after the decision of the Supreme Court, as Senator John Tower
knows, we had the Democratic and Republican leadership of the House and
Senate down to the White House in the Cabinet Room, and I told them the best
thing to do was simply to amend the basic law to provide that the Election
Commission could continue its work, and that the Congress shouldn't add a
lot of extraneous legislation in the process of correcting what the Supreme Court
said was wrong.
Now, that was January 30 when the Court made the decision. Two or 3 days
after that I talked to the leaders in the Congress, and here it is-what's the
date?-[laughter-April 28-here it is April 28, and the Congress has not
yet finished its work on that legislation. It is unforgiveable.
I had a meeting yesterday with some Members of the House and Senate,
and they verified what I have been saying for the last 10 days while Congress
has been on another vacation. [Laughter] They verified to me that the Con-
gress, even the committee, the conference committee, hasn't finished its work.
And one of the Members there said to me, “Mr. President, will you go out and
say that you will agree with this piece of paper that they showed me?"
Well, I said, “Have you finished the job? Can you change it if I say I'm going
to approve it?"
“Oh, yes, we can go back and change it."
I am not going to sign any-or indicate to the Congress that I'm going to sign
anything that they can change when they get in some closed committee room.
1260
