May 2
[415]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
mayors in Gary, or in Indianapolis. And that money can be utilized by local
officials to solve local problems in Fort Wayne, Gary, Indianapolis, Terre Haute,
Evansville, et cetera. That's one program. It's a good program and the Con-
gress better pass it.
Number two, I would extend what we call the Community Development
Act, which is the kind of legislation and funding that in many, many cities-
I am not familiar with the facts here in Fort Wayne, but I know at Indianapolis
and in Grand Rapids and in many, many other cities we have had a rebuilding
of the downtown, primarily as a consequence of what is called the community
development program.
And number three, I would urge the continuation, as I have, of what we
call the Law Enforcement Administration Act, which is a federally authorized
program to give Federal money to local units of government and to the States
to help those cities and States enforce their laws, improve the administration
of justice, and to make sure, as I said in my prepared remarks, that we protect
the victim and we convict and send to prison the criminal.
Q. Mr. President, in Detroit there is downtown-I'm sure you've been
downtown-all the windows, everything is boarded up. I mean, like you can
go on "Meet the Press" or something—they had a news thing on the housing
in Detroit and there are people moving out, people moving in, but they're not
staying because of the things that are happening. What can you do if we put
you in office to maintain living abilities in there?
The President. There are two things we can do. The Federal Government
can do what I have indicated to you, through revenue sharing and the Com-
munity Development Act.
The Secretary of HUD was in Detroit about 2 weeks ago working with the
mayor of Detroit, trying to give help and assistance to the mayor of that city
to get rid of that blighted area with the help of the Federal Government.
But there is one thing I think we all have to remember: It is the obligation
of the city and its citizens and its local officials to also make a substantial
contribution to the improvement of their city.
Q. Mr. President, we have time for one more question.
THE PRESIDENT. One here and one over there. All right.
AID TO THE DISABLED
[6.] Q. I am from Fort Wayne. I would like to know what your views
are on education, especially for the handicapped and for all veterans?
1415
