[333]
April 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. This is a matter of very high discussion among the Ford
family. I am sure what she decides it should be it will be. And I am sure when
it is decided, it will be public very quickly. [Laughter]
BOOK ON NIXON ADMINISTRATION
[2. Q. I would like to know what your views are on the new book by Bob
Woodward and Carl Bernstein, “The Final Days?"
THE PRESIDENT. I haven't read the book. I was not interviewed by Mr. Wood-
ward or Mr. Bernstein. I can only personally testify as to the parts that I under-
stand he wrote concerning the last few days where I was in a position of moving
from Vice President to President. It appears from what I have heard—and I
haven't read it—that it is reasonably accurate. It seems, as I understand it, to
coincide with the testimony that I gave to the House Committee on the Judiciary
in October of 1974 when they asked me to come up and testify as to that period.
I hope that the book is accurate. I am not qualified to pass judgment on all
of the incidents or stories that are alleged. In some way I am a little saddened.
I am not sure that going back and writing that tragic period in our history
is necessarily good, but if it is accurate, that is the record. If it isn't, I think it is
very, very tragic. And not having read it, I can't testify to anything more
than that.
FEDERAL ESTATE TAXES
[3.] Q. Mr. President, we-the farmers and the ranchers of the Panhandle-
have really inherited a rich and fulfilling future but we have also inherited some
problems, just as you yourself have. But we feel that without the passage of the
Burleson-Curtis estate tax bill we are going to have-raising the floor from
$60,000 to $200,000-we are going to have trouble affording to inherit, or have
trouble affording this inheritance. Would you elaborate on this, and would you
tell us if you plan to sign this bill as it is coming in out of the committee going
to both Houses, and it should go across your desk in the next several months?
THE PRESIDENT. I fully recognize the need and necessity for increasing the
exemption in our Federal estate tax. As a matter of fact, in January of this year,
in my State of the Union Message, I indicated that we had to give some relief
if we were going to permit owners of so-called family farms to pass them on
from one generation to another or small businesses to pass the controlling in-
terest in small businesses from one generation to another.
At that time, I recommended that we ought to have a 5-year moratorium in
the payment of any estate taxes—no payments would be made under the estate
1102
