[519]
May 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
Between 1964 and 1974-it's almost unbelievable, but it's true-the Congress
cut $50 billion from defense spending. I fought, as Bob Wilson knows, this
dangerous trend for 25 years in the Congress. For 14 of those years, I was in the
thick of it on the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee handling all the money,
the programs, the policies of the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, and Marines.
And it might be possible that one or more people in this audience came before
that subcommittee during that span of time.
As President, after this struggle in the House of Representatives and in
the Congress, I had the chance personally to take the decisive action, and I
took it. My budgets for fiscal year 1976, our current year, and 1977, the year
that begins October 1, were designed to produce a net increase in the size of
our fleet. My fiscal year 1976 budget contained $5,400 million for Navy ship-
building. For the next fiscal year, which begins in October, I increased that
request to $6,300 million. I budgeted for 16 new ships for our Navy-a one-
fourth increase over our average shipbuilding in the previous 9 years.
At the same time, I saw that the new programs or problems that we faced
demanded a sweeping new approach. I called for a study within the National
Security Council of our long term naval requirements and shipbuilding needs.
This blueprint for our future naval requirements is not yet finished in its
entirety. Its tentative findings, however, confirm that we must increase our
shipbuilding efforts and do it now. For this reason, I recently asked for another
$1,200 million over our original budget of $6,300 million for fiscal year 1977.
This add-on will provide for the construction of five additional ships and
advance funding for a new Nimitz-class aircraft carrier, the finest afloat.
The Navy needs these ships. The fact is we cannot afford less. We must have
a balanced Navy, one that can deter conflict but one than can, if necessary han-
dle the full spectrum of possible conflict, from firing a warning shot across the
bow to winning an all-out war.
Our Navy must be modern and it must be balanced. Such a naval force requires
a major effort to build new ships and requires that we continue to modernize
an existing fleet and its arsenal. With your tremendous technological and pro-
ductive capacity here in California, you will continue to play a very crucial role
in this important effort.
Through the years, southern California industry has also made enormous con-
tributions to another vital area of our national defense-aircraft design and
technology. United States aircraft, both military and commercial, outperform
their counterparts throughout the world. The B-1, our newest strategic bomber,
represents the ultimate in advanced aircraft design and performance.
1694
