[657]
July 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
involved in Canadian Government decisions on the one hand and the Interna-
tional Olympic Committee on the other. I have expressed myself very clearly
that we hope they will continue as broadly based as possible.
ISRAELI RESCUE OF HOSTAGES IN UGANDA
[10. Q. Mr. President, do you believe that the Israeli violation of Uganda
national sovereignty was justified?
THE PRESIDENT. The Department of State and our representatives to the
United Nations will set forth our position very clearly in the debate that I think
begins today, on one or more resolutions before the Security Council. I am told
that our position is a firm one, on good legal grounds, and I will wait and let
that be expressed by them during the debate.
PRESIDENT FORD'S PROSPECTS FOR A FIRST-BALLOT NOMINATION
[11.] Q. Mr. President, could we talk about the delegates once again? Do
you believe that before you get to Kansas City you are going to have more than
you need to get a first ballot victory-that you can cite and name?
THE PRESIDENT. I think, as I said a moment ago, we will have enough delegates
to win on the first ballot, which I think infers certainly that we know who will
be voting for President Ford's nomination.
ALASKA PIPELINE
[12.] Q. Mr. President, can you tell us what you've learned recently about
the extent of the problems on the Alaska pipeline and what the penalties
might be in terms of cost and delay?
THE PRESIDENT. I got a very complete report late yesterday afternoon from the
Secretary of Interior and the Secretary of Transportation. I think you know
that Under Secretary [Deputy Secretary] of Transportation John Barnum is
either leaving or has left to go up there with a group of technical people to make
an on-the-spot evaluation of the several reports as to the number of welds that
are allegedly defective. I am going to be kept constantly advised as to what they
recommend as to a procedure and as to the certainty that the pipeline meets all
of the Department of Transportation's regulations for interstate pipeline safety.
We have not gotten into the added cost, whatever it might be, but I am con-
fident that I will be fully advised at all times.
Q. Have you talked with any people from the Justice Department as to the
possibility of criminality involved in falsification of records?
The President. That is a matter for the Department of Justice to determine.
1992
