May 26
[535]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
We have been seriously and constructively working together, and the Attor-
ney General, in due time, as he finds the right case, will go to the Supreme Court
if he thinks the record justifies it. And Secretary Mathews will come to me with
a more limited number of options at the proper time, and I expect sometime
within the next several weeks I will get those recommendations.
Q. But did you not tell the Kentucky editors, as I recall it quite vividly, that
you had three alternatives already that you were studying and that you would
make a judgment on those shortly?
THE PRESIDENT. I had three, and I have asked Secretary Mathews to review
them and to make sure that they might be alternatives that would really be
helpful. And he has gone back to review those three alternatives, and I expect
shortly he will come up with a more complete recommendation.
WELFARE REFORM
[16.] Q. Mr. President, 200 persons, or interested groups, are suing the
Government to block the 1½ million persons who might be dropped from the
welfare rolls. What is the Ford administration going to do to change that
proposal to be sure that persons on welfare can have the adequate sustenance
they need?
THE PRESIDENT. Which part of the welfare program are you talking about?
Q. I'm speaking about the part where the proposal states that many of the per-
sons would either receive limited amounts or some would be dropped totally. I
know it's a complete package, but how will you deal with that total situation?
THE PRESIDENT. There are a number of areas of welfare where we have sought
to take corrective action. One of them is the food stamp program. I have made
recommendations in the food stamp program to give more food stamps to the
really needy and eliminate from the food stamp program people who are well
above the poverty line and in the process save about $1,600 million. Now, that's
one part of the welfare program.
There are other areas, and I cannot detect from the way you have described
it which one you are talking about, other than the food stamp program because
that was $1,600 million, too.
PRESIDENT FORD'S REACTION TO JUDICIAL DECISIONS
[17.] Q. Mr. President, you have reiterated tonight that you are against
court-ordered busing to achieve school desegregation, a remedy that's the law
of the land. You've also said that you told your Attorney General to get the
Supreme Court to reconsider its busing decisions. Just this week you also indi-
1755
