May 3
[417]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
the money, the formula by which the money is spent and/or allocated, I
should say.
So, with these reservations we submitted, for all intents and purposes, the
same formula. That formula, of course, is based on need on the one hand, on
tax efforts on the other, and population as the third factor.
Inevitably, when you're dealing with 50 States and with 39,000 local units
of government all over this great country, there always will be some inequity.
But basically I think it has been sound, and if we had opened that can of worms,
we would be a lot further away today from getting the legislation than we are
at the present time.
Q. Mr. Ford, my name is Sherry Lockery. I was lucky enough to come today.
My father is out of town. He's with the Hoosier Associates. I just wanted to
say Mr. Carter has accused you of being weak and backing off from Mr. Reagan's
political pressure. On the contrary, I would like to commend your campaign
style. Instead of attacking and degrading other candidates, instead of spending
a lot of time defending your positions against malicious rumors and unreasonable
criticisms, you and your campaign workers are dealing with your qualifications
and standing on your own platform and beliefs instead of concentrating on the
flaws and faults of other candidates.
Thank you very much.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you.
Q. Mr. President, I am State Senator Eldon Tipton. I'm from the other party.
[Laughter] I want to make a slight statement, that I am one of the public
officials in Indiana, especially in my area where the tax base has been so eroded
by both State and Federal Government, that no responsible public official
there challenges or opposes revenue sharing. But, Mr. President, is it not true
that when the State government and Federal Government has excess funds or
surplus funds that they can use to revenue share, have they not actually over-
taxed the people, sir?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't necessarily think so, as far as the Federal Government
is concerned. In our case—and I speak only with authority about the Federal
Government-I will let each of the 50 Governors respond to your question
vis-a-vis State government.
But the Federal Government for primarily economic reasons will have a
peak and valley situation where revenues will be less than we anticipated. And
for economic reasons, expenditures must be greater than might have been antici-
pated so that a program such as revenue sharing, which is a fixed program that
we can count on as far as the Federal Government is concerned, and you at the
1427
