[380]
April 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
America still has the strongest and the freest form of government on this Earth,
and that is why we can say we are very proud to be Americans.
Now, we are on the threshold of our third century. I see this as the century
of individual freedom in which individuals will increasingly fulfill themselves
as they achieve their national or natural potential. For this to be the century
of individual freedom, it must be the century of individual security. For the
law to provide that security, we must have laws that are respected. We must
keep the law alive by making sure that it changes to meet the changing needs
of our society in America.
While protecting the rights of the accused, our emphasis must always be on
protecting the rights of the victim. The victim must be our primary concern
and the law must be our means of fulfilling the promise in our Constitution to
ensure domestic tranquillity.
We must continue working to identify and to solve those social and institu-
tional problems which cause crime in the first place. But there are also new
efforts we can make and have been making to fight crime by improving the
administration of justice. We must ensure that the law is administered fairly,
swiftly, and surely.
One of my earliest concerns as President was to seek some cures for our crime
problem, a problem which has been growing in this country for more than 50
years. I put crime control among the top items of our national agenda. In 1975
we saw the rate of increase in crime drop substantially in America—from 17
percent in 1974 to 9 percent in 1975-and we have found some productive ways
to deal with crime by providing ideas and Federal seed money to the State and
local authorities who have the responsibility for criminal prosecution.
Here in Tarrant County, for example, the Law Enforcement Assistance Ad-
ministration will have provided almost $2 million in aid to the district attorney's
office from 1973 to 1978.
The money has been used imaginatively by your local law enforcement agen-
cies to serve many, many purposes. It has helped your attorneys to use their
time, their talents, much more effectively by providing administrative help,
continuous training, and capital improvement such as computers.
One very important function it has served-it has been put to use by prose-
cuting attorneys in direct and immediate contact with police officers. By screen-
ing the cases as they are brought in, prosecution has been made very much more
effective. This has helped to relieve overcrowding in the courts, which all too
often lets criminals hide behind the logjam.
For example, LEAA last year finished a report on rape and its victims, and
1266
