April 10
[333]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
tax laws-plus a 20-year annual payment of whatever the taxes were on annual
increments at a 4-percent interest rate. In checking into the matter further, we
have made an additional recommendation that would take that $60,000 exemp-
tion which was passed in 1942 up to $150,000. Now, that is a modification of the
so-called Burleson bill. I know that arguments can be made that it ought to go
to $200,000 rather than $150,000. I know that other figures can be used that
might even take it higher than that.
All I can say is I understand the problem. We have submitted what I think
is a good increase in the exemption, particularly with the phasing of the pay-
ments, if any, beyond the $150,000 so that, in effect, the Federal Government is
financing the transfer over that rather than forcing the new generation to go
to the banks.
So, I think our proposal is a good one. If the Congress wants to modify it,
of course, we will take a look at it. You have no hesitancy to believe that I
honestly feel very strongly that we have got to make changes along the lines we
have discussed, and I don't think we are too far apart.
NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE PROGRAM
[4.] Q. Mr. President, pertaining to the three national health insurance plans
that the Congress has been discussing, which of the three are you for and would
you support?
THE PRESIDENT. Are you talking about national health insurance?
Q. Yes, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. I am not sure we can identify three. We have had the Kennedy
proposal, which up until this year was the Kennedy-Griffith proposal, which
would have encompassed a total federalization of the health delivery system of
the United States. It would have put the Federal Government in the patient-
doctor relationship. It would have in effect made the Federal Government collect
the payments or the taxes and handle all the monetary transactions and really
control medicine in this country. I am opposed to that program, period.
And if you go from that extreme, you can go to the attitude that nothing
should be done. I think not now, maybe not for 3 or 4 years, there is a potential
that we could utilize the private health insurance companies. They are good,
they cover now about 80 to 85 percent of the American people, and the Federal
Government could utilize their capability, their experience, and have, in effect,
total coverage. That is, I think, a possibility. But even in that instance we
can't go to it now until we get our Federal finances underway—straightened
out, I should say.
1103
