May 12
[463]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
of criticism. We have had a lot of quick-fix answers. But let me tell you this:
Jerry Ford calls them straight, and Jerry Ford isn't going to promise you any-
thing that he can't produce and he will produce everything he promises.
Now, let me talk about three things-peace, prosperity, and trust.
As President of these United States, I am proud to be able to stand here and
tell you that our country is at peace. We are at peace because we are strong, we
are respected. And I can assure you that for the next 4 years, we are going to
keep strong, we are going to keep at peace, and we are going to do it because
we are respected.
But let me talk for a minute now about prosperity. Let's take just a minute to
go back and find out what the circumstances were when I became President, 21
months ago. We were experiencing 12- to 14-percent inflation. Do you know
what it was the first 3 months of 1976? Under 3 percent. That's a 75-percent cut.
Shortly after I became President, we started on this unfortunate bandwagon
of a recession. But let me tell you, in the last 12 months, because we have had
the right policies, because we didn't panic, because we did constructive things,
we are making real headway towards prosperity on a permanent, solid basis.
And give me 4 more years, and I will produce it for you.
Now I know the great State of Michigan, which I love, and the people that
I really feel close to have had a tough time the last 12 months. But you have had
great leadership in Governor Bill Milliken; you have had a good congressional
delegation headed by Senator Bob Griffin. And then let me tell you, because of
their help and cooperation, I have been able to do some things that kept us
on the track from the depth of that recession to where we are going uphill and
where we added 710,000 more jobs in this country in the last month and
3,300,000 more jobs in the last year. And we are going to get a lot more for
Michigan in the months ahead.
But you know we have had a little trouble, or I have had, with some people
down in Congress. When we started to go on this difficult economic situa-
tion, there were some people in Congress that said, "Spend a lot of taxpayers'
money, add a lot of jobs to the Federal payroll, do all the things that might in
the short run, but in the long run would be bad."
You know, they sent down 49 bills that I vetoed; 42 of those were sustained
by Bob Griffin and some of the other people in the House of Representatives.
We saved-listen to this now-we saved the taxpayers of this country, by those
42 vetoes which have been sustained, $13 billion. And if the Congress sends
any more of those big spending bills that will add just billions and billions and
1547
