April 9
[321]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
further. When Congress passed the original law, I signed it. It became law. It
was in late 1974. There were a number of people that challenged the constitu-
tionality of the legislation. The Supreme Court, about 60 or 90 days ago, said
that certain portions of that legislation were unconstitutional, including the one
that provided for the six members of the Federal Election Commission—four
to be appointed by the House and Senate and two appointed by the President—
was unconstitutional.
When the Court acted, I immediately got the Democrat and Republican
leadership down to the Cabinet Room. We talked about how we could remedy
the constitutional defects in the law. It seemed to me that the easiest and best
way to do it was to reconstitute the Commission as directed by the Supreme
Court. And that ought to be done and nothing else. I recommended that to the
Congress. Unfortunately, the Senate and House now have both passed bills
that, yes, remedied the one problem, which is basic, but in each case they have
added a number of, I think, very questionable provisions.
So, it appears that in conference between the House and the Senate they will
have to come out with a lot of nonessential, controversial, complex amendments
to the basic law, which I think was a bad mistake. And it would have been so
much better, so much more constructive if they had just reconstituted the com-
mittee or Commission and let it go at that. If they send a lot of complicated, con-
troversial, I think, nonessential amendments down to it, it's a good candidate
for a veto.
INFLATION
[6.] Q. Mr. President, I would like to ask you a question about inflation. You
stated that the inflation rate last year was 12.5 percent, and at present it's about
6 percent. Could you tell me if you expect the inflation rate to go lower within
this year and next year?
THE PRESIDENT. Certainly the trend is in the right direction. Let's take the
Wholesale Price Index. For the last 5 months, if you average them we had 2
months that were below-in other words, they had a decline—and they had 3
months where the increase was minimal. And if you take the 5 months, actually
the Wholesale Price Index is flat. And of course, that has an impact on our Con-
sumer Price Index.
Now, the last Consumer Price Index figure that came out was .2 percent. It's
my opinion that the trend is in the right direction. We estimated that for the cal-
endar year 1976, that the rate of inflation would be between 6.5 percent and 7
percent. We are very optimistic it is going to be less than that because the trend
1047
