May 25
[523]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
The vision that I have for the next 4 years and for the next century, is just
this: Our third century ought to be the century for the individual. I think we
have become dominated by mass government, mass education, mass labor, mass
business, mass industry. I think it is about time that we ought to put the empha-
sis in the next hundred years on the individual. And that's my vision for this
country.
|
JUDICIAL RESTRAINT OF THE NEWS MEDIA
[2.] Q. Mr. President, the news media are increasingly concerned with the
tendency of the courts throughout the United States to conduct trials in secret
and to issue gag orders which we consider to be in violation of the Constitution.
Does your administration plan any action with regard to that?
The President. We, in my administration, have some differences with the
courts ourselves—[laughter]—so I have been admonished by my Attorney Gen-
eral and other legal advisers that I should not, under any circumstances, tell the
courts what they should or shouldn't do. I've been tempted, but I've bitten my
tongue on a good many occasions.
I can only say that I sympathize with the views that the news media have.
I think it would be unfortunate if the courts of this country should close the
doors to the public and to the press in the conduct of either criminal or civil
trials. Our society has always been, and I hope always will be, predicated on
openness. And I might add parenthetically, that is one of the things we have tried
to do in the White House in the last 22 months. So, I am sympathetic, but I
am not sure that we can do anything in a legislative way to remedy the situa-
tion. Maybe a few new judges might help, however. [Laughter]
SECRETARY OF STATE KISSINGER
[3.] Q. Mr. President, you talked about the successful Sinai agreement, and
Mr. Kissinger has played a large, important role in the Middle East. He has
suddenly resigned and, you are having, of course, pressures from Mr. Reagan.
And I just would question Mr. Kissinger's resignation, and is that politically
motivated?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I am not familiar with any words or actions by Secre-
tary Kissinger that would indicate that he is going to resign. I strongly support
our foreign policy, which is a result of decisions that I make and which is the
result of the execution of it by him as Secretary of State.
How do you judge whether a Secretary of State has done a good or bad job?
I think the way you do it is to see whether this country has achieved, main-
1709
