May 23
[510]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
believe that the leadership of the President Ford Committee in California is
excellent.
We have a good many friends, because I have been in California a good many
times. I have worked with the Members of the Congress from California. I have
worked with your State people. I believe that with the kind of programs that
we have where we have achieved the peace, maintained the peace and have
the prospects for peace in the future; where we have turned the economy around,
where we are on the way to a solid and prosperous America; where we have re-
stored public confidence and trust in the Government-these are the programs
that are of interest to and supported by the American people.
So, the time that I will be here in California will be devoted to talking to as
many people, doing as strongly as we can, the persuasion of the people in this
great State that the President Ford administration is a good one for California as
well as for the country. Thank you very, very much.
You might have a question or two.
REPORTER. Mr. President, do you expect to have any contact in any form with
former President Nixon?
THE PRESIDENT. I have no such plans.
Q. After Kansas City, how do you propose to bind up the wounds of the
Republican Party from the primary battles?
THE PRESIDENT. I think those are wounds that can be taken care of, at least as
far as I am concerned. The Republican philosophy and the Republican Party
is broad enough to take care of any pre-convention problems, and I will do my
best to achieve that.
Q. Mr. President, what kind of strategy will you use against Mr. Reagan here
in his own State?
THE PRESIDENT. I didn't hear it all. Would you ask it again, please?
Q. What type of strategy will you use against Mr. Reagan here in his own
State?
THE PRESIDENT. I think I have laid it out. We will talk about the affirmative
achievements and accomplishments of the Ford administration in the last 22
months. Those are the accomplishments that have appealed to the American
people, and I believe those are the kinds of programs that the American people
want for the next 4 years. So, we will be talking affirmatively in that regard.
Q. Mr. President, what do you propose as an alternative to forced busing?
THE PRESIDENT. The alternatives are well set forth in what we call the Esch
amendment. The Esch amendment, which was approved when I was a Mem-
ber of the House of Representatives, and I signed it as a law in late 1974, provides
1667
