May 8
[446]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Nothing would make me happier if we could make our teachers and others
like you associated with education focus in on the pupil and not on the paper.
So, that is what we are seeking to do with what we have called block grant
educational funds from the Federal Government instead of the 26 categorical
grant programs that are well-intentioned—I subscribe to them all, I think they
are fundamentally aimed in the right direction—but the net result is that in
most cases the people in Maine and the people in California are treated identi-
cally. The people in Florida are treated the same as the people in Minnesota and
the educational problems in every State are quite different. And when you have
inflexible categorical grant programs, it does not give the educators and those
associated with them at the local level the opportunity to make their own judg-
ments, to use their own wisdom, their own experience. And what you want to
do in Nebraska is what is right for education here, and we ought to give the
same opportunities to those who are in education in South Carolina.
So, what we are trying to do—we recommended to the Congress, not only the
elimination of categorical grant programs in transforming them into block
grant programs so you make the decisions, but we added to the money that the
Federal Government would make available so every State would be held harm-
less and some States. would get more. But the main thrust was to make sure that
you had the Federal money, as much as you had before-and more too in a
number of cases—and at the same time we could rely on your judgment to
benefit the pupil, and that is what education is all about.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:10 p.m. in the
Grand Ballroom West at the Lincoln Hilton Hotel.
In his opening remarks, he referred to Oriel Kinley,
president of the association.
446
Remarks at a President Ford Committee Volunteers Reception
in Lincoln. May 8, 1976
FIRST, I want to thank from the bottom of my heart Carl Curtis and Roman
Hruska, both of them have been with me since I arrived in the State of Ne-
braska yesterday. They have not only been great Senators for you here in Ne-
braska but they have been giving great leadership to my campaign in Nebraska,
and I thank Carl and Roman for their service to your State and to our country
and their support for me.
1511
