April 29
[390]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
I was very pleased to meet the four delegates that are running as President
Ford delegates, and I thank each and every one of them for being on the ballot,
and we will do everything we can to make certain that they get elected. But
let me say a word or two about all of you wonderful volunteers.
First, John Tower has been a "tower of strength"—if I can coin a word—be-
cause he has given the leadership, and his tremendous record of being the senior
Senator from Texas certainly has been extremely helpful. And I want to thank
John for his unselfishness and his great leadership on my behalf.
Secondly, I want to thank all of you for voluntarily volunteering your efforts
to help in this very crucial election. And we consider the election on Saturday
as crucial, if not more so, than any other election in all the 31 or 32 primaries.
It is a very important date, an important date, I think, for the future of the Re-
publican Party, an important date for the philosophy that all of us believe in
and espouse, the kind of philosophy that can give this country in the next century
the leadership, the progress, the strength, the freedom that we want for ourselves
but, more importantly, to these young people who are here with us.
So, May 1 is an important date, I know you are dedicating a lot of time—
you have made hundreds of telephone calls, you have talked to your friends, you
have done everything-but we have got about 70-some hours left, and that's
when the final whistle blows. So, everybody you can get to the polls, everybody
that you can convince to vote the right way could make a critical difference, for
those four delegates, for our success in Kansas City in August, and for the
success of our election process in November.
I know, after I get the nomination, I can win in November. And that mea
I can win against Hubert Humphrey or Jimmy Carter or any one of the other
Democratic candidates. I don't care whether they elect them or nominate them
in the election process or they do it in the smoke-filled rooms in New York City
when they get down there for their convention. We are going to win. But the
crucial vote comes right here in the State of Texas, and so we want your maxi-
mum help.
But there is one thing you might use in talking to the many people you see
from Montgomery County-I think we have had programs that have been
successful for the good of America. As you can recall just a year ago, 12 months,
we were in the depths of the worst economic recession in 40 years in this country.
But by steady, constructive programs we have been able to turn that around.
Instead of having inflation of 12 percent or more, for the first 3 months of this
calendar year it is down to less than 3 percent. That is a 75-percent reduction in
the rate of inflation, and that is progress by any standards.
1321
