April 29
[386]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
ployed in the United States. That is the highest figure in the history of the
United States. That's not bad. In the last year, we have gained 2,600,000 jobs. A
year ago, in May or April, we had a very bad economic situation. Jobs were
being lost, the unemployment was much too high, but in this last 12-month
period we have gained this 2,600,000 jobs, we have reduced the rate of unem-
ployment, and the headway on jobs is up and the trend on unemployment is
down.
But the most important factor, when we look at the overall picture, is what
has happened in the area of inflation. When I became President 20, 21 months
ago, the rate of inflation was 12 to 14 percent, unbelievably high, caused by a
number of factors, but we undertook some sound, I think constructive, steady
courses of action.
We didn't let the Congress roll us over-[laughter]—and the net result is
the rate of inflation for the first 3 months of 1976 is under 3 percent. That's a
75-percent reduction.
And then there is another factor that I think we can sell. A President has to
be firm and decisive. In dealing with the Congress, we have got a good batting
average. We vetoed 48 bills; 39 of them have been sustained, and in the process,
we have saved the American taxpayer $13 billion.
And the person that occupies the White House-you know he can't have any
retakes. [Laughter] He has to make a decision and stand with those decisions.
About a year ago some international bandits tried to capture—and did capture—
an American merchant ship. And what did we do? We took firm action and got
it back, and that is the kind of leadership that this country has to have.
And I might say that if any future international bandits want to use those kind
of tactics, they have been well warned that this administration is not going to
tolerate any adventurism throughout the world.
But let me say in conclusion, we have got strength, we have got the calm,
determined attitude that is necessary and required in this country, whether it
is in the handling of domestic policy or in the area of foreign affairs. We have
strengthened our alliances around the world. And we have convinced our
adversaries that it is more important to negotiate than to confront.
And so, we have some selling points. But all of it really comes down to this
bottom line. All of you are an important, in fact, I would say the main ingredi-
ent in how well we do on Saturday. The phone calls you make, the efforts that
you undertake—that will make the difference. We are going to be working 16,
18 hours a day between now and Friday night. We will do the best we can. We
1297
