April 28
[385]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
have vetoed 48 bills; 39 of those were sustained by the Congress. But the good
news, those vetoes which have been sustained have saved the taxpayers of this
country $13 billion. And if the Congress keeps sending me budget-busting
spending bills, I will veto them again and again and again.
I didn't veto all those spending bills simply to save money; I vetoed some of
them because they would have entangled America in a few more miles of gov-
ernmental redtape, and I think we have far too much of that already.
I have faith in the imagination and the energies of the American people. I
think government should help out individuals and businesses where neces-
sary, but otherwise, government should stand back and let the American people
get on with the job and do the good job they can do.
Frankly, I don't believe the purpose of government should be to give us what
it thinks we should have, and I don't believe that government should give us
everything we want. The more commonsense function of government is to
enable us to earn what we want for ourselves.
I have said it before, but it is so. I think, true today, and I hope you don't mind
my saying it again: A government big enough to give us everything we want
is a government big enough to take from us everything we have.
It is very easy to promise things to people when you are a candidate, but
when you are President you have a much more serious job at hand. You have
to make hard decisions. These decisions are rarely very easy because, as much
as you might like to, you can't make everybody happy. But once you have made
those decisions, you have to stick by them and be prepared to take the
consequences.
I will tell you one decision that I have made. I made it a long, long time
ago, and then I reaffirmed it in the hundreds of votes over my 25 years in the
Congress. I decided that a nation must always be strong militarily-second to
none in this whole world-and today we are strong, unsurpassed in military
might. And I am going to make absolutely certain and positive we are going to
stay that way in the future.
I have made the necessary decisions, authorized the essential initiatives, and
I will push, push hard the Congress for nothing less than the best. I will veto any
defense bill sent to my desk that might compromise our national security.
I am very proud to be the President of a nation strong enough, determined
enough, courageous enough to deter aggression, and as long as I am President
we are going to keep it that way. I will spare no effort to keep this great country
strong and free.
My administration, for the past 20 months, has pursued policies that reflect
1289
