[653]
July 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
-And a five and three quarter year package of general revenue sharing funds
for state and local governments.
I ask Congress to act quickly on my tax and budget proposals, which I believe
will provide the jobs for the unemployed that we all want.
The White House,
July 6, 1976.
NOTE: On July 21, 1976, the Senate voted to over-
ride the President's veto. With the vote in the
House of Representatives to override the veto on
July 22, S. 3201 was enacted as Public Law 94
369 (90 Stat. 999).
GERALD R. FORD
For the President's statement on congressional
enactment of the legislation, see Item 6.
654
Remarks of Welcome to Queen Elizabeth II of the
United Kingdom. July 7, 1976
Your Majesty, Your Royal Highness, ladies and gentlemen:
On behalf of the American people, I am delighted to welcome you and your
party to the United States and to the White House.
Your first state visit to America in 1957 marked the 350th anniversary of the
settlement of Jamestown, the first permanent British colony in this new land.
You honor us again by coming to share our Bicentennial observance in the new
spirit of optimism and cooperation generated by this great occasion.
During the 169 years between the first settlement of Jamestown and our in-
dependence, 13 Colonies prospered, protected by the British Navy, enjoying the
advantage of British commerce, and adopting British concepts of representative
self-government. In declaring independence in 1776, we looked for guidance to
our British heritage of representative government-representative government
as well as law. As a sovereign nation we have kept and nurtured the most dur-
able bond of all-the bond of idealism in which our new nation was conceived.
Your Majesty's visit symbolizes our deep and continuing commitment to the
common values of an Anglo-American civilization. Your Majesty, for genera-
tions our peoples have worked together and fought together side by side. As
democracies we continue our quest for peace and justice.
The challenges we now face are different from those that we have confronted
together and overcome in the past. At stake is the future of the industrialized de-
mocracies which have sustained their destiny in common for more than a
generation. At stake is the further extension of the blessings of liberty, to all
1982
