[327]
April 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
I think when we look at the total, we came out of this in good shape, and I
am convinced that over the long haul, it's in the best interest of American
agriculture.
GRAIN EXPORT EMBARGO
[5.] Q. Mr. Ford, in your first response, you said that our products would
have been backed up at ships and trains and other places. Was this because of
labor unions, that we had to negotiate with them to move our products?
THE PRESIDENT. We didn't have to negotiate with them. They had instituted
an embargo at the ports and some efforts were made-the Farm Bureau and
several other organizations instituted law suits. But those law suits take time, and
if the time had elapsed for the court processes to go through, it might have been
2 months, it might have been 3 months. And in order to break that logjam and
to get the ships moving to sea and other ships coming in so you could unload the
trains and the trains could take the grain from your farms and your elevators,
we had to get some action.
And I think that was the practical way. And anybody that alleges or believes
George Meany runs the White House-I think most of you know that I vetoed
the common situs picketing bill which was a bill that they wanted very strongly.
VICE-PRESIDENTIAL RUNNING MATE
[6.] Q. Mr. President, would either John Tower or John Connally be ac-
ceptable as your Vice-Presidential running mate? [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. The answer is unequivocally, yes. John Tower is one of my
best friends. He is one of the outstanding Senators. He has gone sled length on
my behalf in this campaign. I can't thank him enough for his efforts, not only
for Texas, for the country and myself, but I think he is a great guy. Therefore,
he surely would be one person that would be fully qualified and certainly a
potentiality. And from John Connally's record, that you know as well if not
better than I, obviously he would be qualified.
EXPORT ADMINISTRATION ACT OF 1969
[7.] Q. President Ford, my name is Owen Lafferty, from Whitedeer, Texas.
I have read that by enacting the moratorium was against the administration ex-
port act, which was passed at an earlier time by Congress. Would you tell us
what the administration export act states concerning export controls, and how
the administration can legally violate this act by imposing the moratorium?
THE PRESIDENT. I obviously cannot quote the precise language, but I can as-
AFL-CIO president.
1086
