June 15
[595]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
the commissions during FY 1975. A brief description of current and potential
problems, studies, and approaches to solutions are included in the reports.
The White House,
June 15, 1976.
NOTE: The six reports are entitled:
"New England River Basins Commission: 1975
Annual Report."
"Great Lakes Basin Commission: 1975 Annual
Report."
"Pacific Northwest River Basins Commission: An-
nual Report, Fiscal Year 1975."
GERALD R. FORD
"Ohio River Basin Commission: 1975 Annual
Report."
"Missouri River Basin Commission: Annual Report
1975."
"Upper Mississippi River Basin Commission."
595
Remarks at the Southern Baptist Convention in Norfolk,
Virginia. June 15, 1976
Thank you, Dr. Weber, Congressman Downing, Congressman Whitehurst,
Congressman Daniel, Mayor Hill, members of the executive committee, ladies
and gentlemen:
It's truly a great honor for me to be the first President of the United States
to address this Southern Baptist Convention. I recall with great interest the
last time I was introduced at an event sponsored by the Southern Baptists. It
was a Brotherhood Commission prayer breakfast in Dallas almost exactly 2
years ago, when I was Vice President. The man introducing me was very
considerate, very generous in his remarks, and very friendly. I was introduced
as a man with “an open mind and a compassionate heart,” and today, I would
like to return that compliment to the gentleman who introduced me then—
Governor Jimmy Carter.
The honor you have paid me with the invitation to speak at this convention
is very special to me in a very personal way. Although our religious denomina-
tions are different, I have long admired the missionary spirit of Baptists and
the fact that you strive to keep the Bible at the center of your lives. I also
respect and appreciate your commitment to health care and educational
advancement of your fellow citizens, as exemplified by the many hospitals,
universities, and seminaries supported by Baptist churches.
My oldest son, Mike, who is now a divinity student at Gordon-Conwell
!
1877
