[372]
April 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
of 3 years, as I recall. That is necessary for several reasons. One, the Congress
passed a 40-month decontrol piece of legislation and some agency has to be in
place in the Federal Government to carry out the 40-month decontrol.
Secondly, Congress has passed, at my request, the so-called stockpiling bill of
fuel oil, domestic oil, so that if we had another embargo, we would have a reserve
that would help us over the hump. Some agency has to carry out the stockpiling
of oil so that we have this reserve.
So, I have recommended the extension of the FEA for 3 years so that we could
carry out the responsibility of decontrol and the handling of these stockpiles.
Q. Do you think it will continue?
THE PRESIDENT. I think the Congress will pass it, yes.
Q. What does the status of the new Government policy on black Africa have
to do with your campaign in the South-Louisiana, Texas, and some of the other
States?
THE PRESIDENT Our policy in Africa is the following:
Number one, this country, on a worldwide basis, has always believed in self-
determination for any country, regardless of whether it was Africa or anyplace
else. This country, the United States, has always believed in guaranteeing mi-
nority rights, and this country has also believed that no country, the United
States or any other nation, should dominate a developing continent such as
Africa and particularly South Africa.
So, what we are trying to do is to make sure that Africa has an opportunity
for self-determination with the protection or guarantee of minority rights and
the nondomination by any outside country such as the Soviet Union or the
United States or any other country.
Q. Mr. President, on strictly a local issue, Senator Russell Long of Louisiana
said last week that he will attempt to use his influence with the White House
to block the nomination of U.S. Attorney General John Walters to a U.S. judge-
ship. What is the situation on this, sir?
THE PRESIDENT. It is my understanding that Mr. Walters' name is now before
the Department of Justice for consideration for a potential or possible appoint-
ment to the Federal bench. But, that name, nor any other name, has come to me
for my approval as far as filling a vacancy in the Western District of Louisiana.
Q. Mr. President, how do you view your chances in Texas on Saturday? Are
your views any different than they were a couple of weeks ago, especially in light
of reports that Wallace supporters are saying switch over and vote for Reagan?
THE PRESIDENT. I still think we're an underdog in Texas, but we're closing the
gap and the 4 days that I am going to spend in Texas I hope will be beneficial. I
1232
