[510]
May 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
a list of alternative steps which, if the courts of this country would follow, they
wouldn't get down to the last one, which is forced busing to achieve racial
balance.
The courts, in my judgment, have to look at the guidelines prescribed by the
Congress. The Congress is interested in quality education, as I am, and they-
the Congress are also against segregation. But we can find a way for quality
education if we follow the Esch amendment, and I hope and trust that the
courts will in the future.
REPORTER. Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you all very, very much.
NOTE: The exchange began at 4:30 p.m.
511
Remarks on the 10th Anniversary of Mission Viejo, California.
May 23, 1976
THANK YOU very, very much, Dick. I could have used these rules and orders
in the House of Representatives for the 25 years that I had the privilege and
honor of serving there. I think these rules might be quite helpful if I sent it up
to Capitol Hill right now. [Laughter]
Thank you, Dick, Congressman Chuck Wiggins, Phil Riley, Wendy Edgren,
honored guests, ladies and gentlemen:
I really look forward to being with you here today in this wonderful com-
munity. Mission Viejo is an exceptional community. What a great high school
marching band, and the drill team is awfully good, too, and I hope to hear the
Diablos again in Washington next month.
Being a swimmer myself, I'm impressed by the number of championship
swimmers that Mission Viejo produces. And I'm gambling that you will prove
it again in the Olympic trials this summer.
As one of the new towns in the United States, Mission Viejo stands out be-
cause of your tremendous community being built entirely with private funds.
And I congratulate Phil and all of the others who have had a part in doing this
without the aid and assistance-with the initiative of all of you in this tremen-
dous location in this wonderful atmosphere. I enjoy the opportunity of being
with you this afternoon.
During the 10 years that you have grown, I understand you have handled
1668
