[645]
July 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
sachusetts was one of the wealthiest men who came to Philadelphia. Later, as he
stood outside Boston and watched the enemy sweep by, he said, "Burn, Boston,
though it makes John Hancock a beggar."
Altogether, of the 56 men who signed our great Declaration, 5 were taken
prisoner, 12 had their homes sacked, 2 lost their sons, 9 died in the war itself.
Those men knew what they were doing. In the final stirring words of the Dec-
laration, they pledged to one another "our lives, our Fortunes and our sacred
Honor." And when liberty was at stake, they were willing to pay the price.
We owe a great debt to these founders and to the foot soldiers who followed
General Washington into battle after battle, retreat after retreat. But it is im-
portant to remember that final success in that struggle for independence, as in
the many struggles that have followed, was due to the strength and support of
ordinary men and women who were motivated by three powerful impulses-
personal freedom, self-government, and national unity.
For all but the black slaves-many of whom fought bravely beside their
masters because they also heard the promise of the Declaration-freedom was
won in 1783, but the loose Articles of Confederation had proved inadequate in
war and were even less effective in peace.
Again in 1787, representatives of the people and the States met in this place
to form a more perfect union, a permanent legal mechanism that would trans-
late the principles and purposes of Jefferson's Declaration into effective self-
government.
Six signers of the Declaration came back to forge the Constitution, including
the sage of Philadelphia, Benjamin Franklin. Jefferson had replaced him as Am-
bassador in Paris. The young genius of the Constitutional Convention was an-
other Virginian, James Madison. The hero of the Revolution, Washington, was
called back from Mount Vernon to preside.
Seldom in history have the men who made a revolution seen it through,
but the United States was fortunate. The result of their deliberations and com-
promises was our Constitution, which William Gladstone, a great British Prime
Minister, called "the most wonderful work ever struck off at a given time by the
brain and purpose of man."
The Constitution was created to make the promise of the Declaration come
true. The Declaration was not a protest against government but against the
excesses of government. It prescribed the proper role of government to secure
the rights of individuals and to effect their safety and their happiness. In modern
society, no individual can do this all alone, so government is not necessarily
evil but a necessary good.
1968
