[482]
May 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
beginning July 1 of $10 billion—75 percent of it to go to individuals, 25 percent
to go to industry.
The 75 percent to go to individuals-that is you and you and you and
everybody in this country-we would do it by increasing the personal exemption
from $750 to $1,000 per year. So we could give a tax reduction to the middle-
income people who have been shortchanged over the long years.
And then the other 25 percent of that $10 billion we want to go to industry.
Why? So they can expand; so they will have an incentive to invest, to modernize,
to improve their facilities; so we can become more productive, provide more
jobs in this country.
So, the Ford administration has been in the forefront in tax reduction, in
the reduction of Federal expenditures. And the net result of this well-balanced
program-we can also promise you a balanced budget in 1979.
I was telling you how bad things were a year ago. Now, let me take a few
minutes to tell you how good things are in 1976. A year ago we were in this
recession. In the last 12 months we have added 3,300,000 more jobs in this
country. And we have added in the last month, the month of April, throughout
the United States in 30 days, 710,000 more jobs, so that's pretty good.
I know everybody in this country suffered through that 12 percent inflation
that we had in 1974 when I became President. For the first 3 months of 1976,
if you annualize the inflation rate, it is under 3 percent. So, from 12 percent
down to under 3 percent, that is a 75-percent reduction. That's not bad, either.
So, when you add it up, we are on a surge out of that recession, and we are
leading in a strong and affirmative way to the kind of prosperity that's good
for all of us.
One final comment. I will never forget the day that I was sworn in, took the
oath of office-August 8 [9], 1974. It wasn't a happy day. This country had
gone through a traumatic experience. The American people had lost confidence.
There was a lack of confidence in Government, and so we had to start to rebuild
that confidence, to get the American people to have trust and faith in their
President. They had to believe that the President would be frank, he would be
forthright, he would epitomize integrity. I think in 21 months I have
reestablished that confidence. The American people know that.
I have worked with Thruston Morton since January 3, 1949. He was a 2-year
veteran when I got to Washington, and we have had a friendship over a long,
long period of time. Thruston Morton knows the work that I have done, the
character that I have. I have had the privilege of knowing John Sherman
Cooper for-well, he was in Congress when I came and then he left and went
1590
