[385]
April 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
time, our foreign oil suppliers have continued to raise the price of oil and the
net result is that we are paying out about $32 billion a year to foreign oil
producers.
Now, in January of 1975 I recommended an energy independence program
that called for the decontrol of domestic oil by April 1, 1975, the decontrol of new
natural gas as quickly as Congress would act. Unfortunately, the Congress dil-
lied, dawdled, delayed, debated, and didn't get an energy bill before me in the
Oval Office until December, almost 11 months later.
That was a marginally satisfactory bill. But you are exactly right. Because
Congress has not acted to provide incentives for oil production in the United
States and has not provided the necessary regulation, deregulation for natural
gas, we have not increased our production here in the United States. In fact,
there has been a slow decline.
So, today the United States is buying from overseas sources about 40 or 41 per-
cent of foreign oil or foreign products. And if we had an oil embrago today like
we had in 1973, we would be in a serious crisis in this country.
Now, what are we doing about it? We are gradually decontrolling oil prices.
We are trying to get Congress to move on deregulation of natural gas. We are
trying to increase the construction and operations of nuclear power. We are in
the process of research and development for solar energy, for geothermal en-
ergy, and we are doing some far out research in some of the so-called exotic
fuels.
It is going to take us, even with the Alaskan pipeline, at least until 1985 to
get the job done the way we want it done. But we are trying. If we had a better
Congress to work with, we would be a lot further ahead.
RONALD REAGAN; THE PANAMA CANAL
[6.] Q. Mr. President, after Ronald Reagan made his remark concerning the
Panama Canal issue, you stated that you thought that a man that made a com-
ment like that could not be a competent President. I was wondering, would you
consider Ronald Reagan to be competent enough to be your runningmate in
1976? [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. First, let me correct the record. I said that a person that would
cut off negotiations for the future arrangements of the Panama Canal would be
acting irresponsibly, and I repeat that here tonight.
I say it would be irresponsible to cut off the negotiations which were initiated
by former President Johnson in 1965 and carried on for the last 12 or 13 years.
1294
