April 30
[398]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
ever before in the history of the United States. Considering where we started
from, I would say that's a pretty good comeback.
New factory orders in February totaled over $90 billion, and new orders for
durable goods in March increased by a very impressive 6.5 percent over the
previous month. Real earnings for the average American have increased very
significantly in recent months. The index of consumer confidence, which is a
vital criteria by which we judge the future, is double what it was a year ago.
The list could go on and on, but even good economic statistics get boring after
a while.
But let me emphasize one thing: These statistics are not political fiction; they
are hard economic facts, and they're pointing us on the road to a new prosperity
in the United States of America.
Now, there are some politicians—who shall be nameless, I hope, and winless
tomorrow―[laughter]—who say that the economic recovery isn't real. They say
it's an election year illusion and the roof is going to fall in after the election in
November. But the truth is that this recovery is not based on any Government-
imposed wage and price controls or make-work Government employment jobs
or massive new Government spending.
I have consistently and firmly and, I think, constructively fought attempts by
the Congress to impose on our wonderful economic system such quick-fix gim-
micks. In fact, over the last 20 months, I have vetoed 48 bills sent to me by the
Congress; 40 of those vetoes have been sustained, and those 40 vetoes will save
the American taxpayers $13 billion.
And I think it ought to be mentioned, in addition, that some of those vetoes
which I sent back to the House and the Senate, they knew in advance they
couldn't override so they never brought them up. And let me mention one of
those vetoes which, I think, is of some interest here that falls in that category.
And it's the veto of the common situs picketing bill, which I was very happy
to veto about 6 months ago.
I think the record is very clear. I am committed to holding Federal spending
to the lowest possible levels. With your help we can achieve a balanced budget
in fiscal year 1979 and I will veto in the future any of the additional spending
bills that the Congress sends me. I will veto them again and again and again and
I hope in the process the Congress will learn what they can do and what they
can't do.
When you come right down to it, I think, we can honestly say that this recovery
is not based on the shifting sands of political expediency but on the solid rock
of the American free enterprise system. And that is the reason that our good
1347
