[420]
May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
420
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session at a Public Forum
in Birmingham. May 3, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Dave, Congressman John Buchanan, Bill
Dickinson, Jack Edwards, Mayor Vann, distinguished public officials, members
of the Birmingham Chamber of Commerce and guests:
I'm delighted to be here in Birmingham, the all-American city, a thriving,
growing, energetic, magic city, and I congratulate you and compliment you.
The source of that magic, of course, is a lot of hard work and determination
by people of Birmingham. For sure, the harder you work, the luckier you get.
It's an old phrase that I have used a good many times, and I think it's apropos
here in Birmingham.
Twenty-one months ago, America was entering its worst economic recession
in 40 years. I decided, as your President, that America would work its way out
of that recession rather than trying to spend its way out of that recession.
Some of America's leading economists, politicians, and labor leaders thought
it best to impose wage and price controls to deal with America's economic
problems. Others insisted that we spend massive amounts of Federal dollars
to stimulate the economy, despite the danger of kicking off a new round of
inflation.
I knew that the way to real recovery in America and enduring prosperity
was not through Government quick fixes imposed on us by a bad Congress.
I knew that the better course was to get the great American free enterprise
system working at full speed again.
I proposed, and the Congress accepted, a major tax cut for individuals, tax
incentives for business expansion and job production, and began a compre-
hensive effort to restore the confidence of the American people in themselves,
in their government, and in their future. This effort was absolutely essential
if we were to restore the economic confidence of the consumer, a very key
element in our recovery policy.
These policies have been very successful. America, as we all know, is in the
midst of a strong and stable recovery. The gross national product rose during
the first quarter of this year at an annual rate of 7.5 percent. The spendable
income of American families has increased by $100 billion over a year ago.
Farm income is at an alltime high and so is farm production. Productivity
1448
