[420]
May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
Now, I really don't think six C-130 aircraft are going to have any adverse
military impact on the State of Israel. And therefore, I think we should sell
those aircraft to Egypt to show our good faith and to be as a part of an encour-
agement for Egypt to have its independence from any outside force, including
the Soviet Union.
CHROME IMPORTS; U.S. POLICY TOWARD AFRICA
[5. Q. Mr. President, I am an assistant sales manager of a local foundry,
and we deal in chrome and other metals. I'd like you to clarify, if you can, our
stand in Rhodesia with regard to majority rule, because I understand if majority
rules it'll become a dictatorship or obviously a communistic situation, and we
deal in chrome.
THE PRESIDENT. It is a very good question. It is a good question, but first let
me say, I was looking at some statistics just the other day and the actual amount
of chrome that America buys from Rhodesia is about 5 percent of the total that
we buy worldwide. So, there are plenty of sources of chrome all around the
world, and it's not just Soviet chrome.
As a matter of fact, Soviet chrome is only about 12 percent of what is purchased
by this country. The rest comes from a number of other countries. So, chrome is
available on a worldwide basis, and we buy most of it from other sources.
Secondly, the policy that we are trying to enunciate in Africa is the following:
Number one, we believe in self-determination. Isn't that an old American tradi-
tion? Isn't that how America became America? I don't think we want to aban-
don self-determination. It's part of our life, it's part of our history. Number
two-and this is the real crux of the argument-under no circumstances would
we be a part of any development there that did not guarantee minority rights,
including white minority rights.
FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION ACT
[6.] Q. Mr. President, you spoke earlier and proudly about your veto
record, and justifiably so. I wanted to ask in regard to the latest version of the
election campaign act—since it has a very strong and very definite antibusiness
bias, particularly in regard to congressional action committees, and since this
bill appears to be more than slightly revised, and in lieu of your past veto
record-would you consider vetoing it if the legislation passes?
THE PRESIDENT. Since the Congress has not yet completed action-the House
of Representatives voted on it this afternoon; I think the Senate will vote on it
later today or maybe tomorrow-I have not yet seen the final version. And I've
1454
