June 6
[560]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
put Ronald Reagan on the ticket if you are going to have the backing of your
party? And you have got to have the solid backing of the Republican Party, it
seems to me.
THE PRESIDENT. I have said that I would not exclude any Republican that I
have looked at or we have heard about that might qualify as being a Vice-
Presidential candidate, and that would include Ronald Reagan. Now, he has
himself indicated he would not be interested in being Vice President, but as far
as I am concerned, I would not exclude him.
Now, we will have to take a look at the two people that the Democratic
Party nominates in their July convention in New York City. We will have to
see how the convention turns out in Kansas City, how we can best heal any
wounds that the party might have as a result of the many primaries. Of course,
the main thing is: Is the person who is going to be nominated for Vice Presi-
dent fully qualified to be President in case something should happen to the
President? Now, all of those things have to be put into this formula, and we
will look at the kind of data that you have indicated. But I think it is premature
to make any commitment at this time.
MR. HERMAN. But are you seriously saying that the choice of the Democratic
Convention would really influence the man that you want for your Vice
President?
The President. It certainly is a factor in the formula. That has been the
tradition in conventions over the years in our Presidential races; you can't
ignore it. Democrats have done it, Republicans have done it, and I suspect it
will be a factor—not the controlling factor, but it will be a factor.
MR. HERMAN. I know this is probably something you can't tell us in some
detail. You usually give a list of the people that you are interested in that has
been well published. Do you have one favorite yourself—in your bosom, as they
say in the church—who you would like as your Vice President?
THE PRESIDENT. I haven't decided on one person, Mr. Herman. I have several
that I think fit a very good category of the kind of people, but it is very prema-
ture to make any final decision at this point.
CAMPAIGN STATEMENTS
[5.] MISS THOMAS. Mr. President, you have said several times on several
occasions that Reagan's statements on Panama, Rhodesia, so forth, were ir-
responsible. Yet, you say all that would be forgotten; when he gets into the
White House he would be responsible. Are you saying that Reagan is only mak-
1795
