[580]
June 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
or better. We were on the brink of the worst economic recession in 40 years.
Unemployment was about to soar, and employment was about to plummet.
We were faced with serious problems around the world. Our allies were
wondering whether we had a will and a resolution to continue the kind of
foreign policies that had been successful for the free world ever since the end
of World War II. Our adversaries around the globe were tempted, I'm sure,
as to whether or not they could or should take advantage of the uncertainty
and the problems we faced at home.
It wasn't an easy job to take that oath of office and say we had to turn things
around. And let me say the first and most important responsibility was to
restore the confidence and trust of the American people in the White House
itself.
I was very pleased to hear Del Latta, who I served with for 18 years, make
the comments that he did. But I decided that the Ford administration, right
from the first moment after the oath of office, would be sraightforward, would
be candid, would be open, would be willing to talk to anybody, whether I
agreed with them or disagreed with them, because all of the wisdom does not
reside in that little Oval Office. It resides in some 215 million Americans, young
and old.
I was checking the other day, and in the 22 months we have had 15,000
people come into the West Wing of the White House and either talk to me or
the top people in my administration. They have been farmers, they have been
workers, they have been minorities, they have been businessmen, they have
been academicians. We want to get the full benefit of the views and the criticisms
of the American people.
Therefore, I think in all honesty that I can say to all of you here at Bowling
Green State University, this President has restored the faith and confidence
that's needed and necessary in the White House if we are going to do a job
for our country.
Let's talk about the economic problems. I said inflation was at 12 percent
or more. We were about to hit the kind of a recession that had never hit us
since the days of the 1930's, during the depression, when I was going to the
University of Michigan. We had to do something about it. The question was
whether we should have faith and trust in the great free enterprise system or
whether we were going to load up the payrolls around the country with the
taxpayers' money and come up with some alleged quick fix that had been
tried in the past but had not really solved the problems.
So, I decided that it was needed and necessary to have faith, trust in the sys-
1848
