May 11
[450]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
the solicitation efforts of the United Way of the National Capital Area, the Na-
tional Health Agencies, and the International Service Agencies. In this one
drive we will seek to do our share to meet the needs of more than 150 local,
national and international health, welfare and social service agencies.
These organizations deserve our wholehearted support. Working together
through the Combined Federal Campaign we can provide the needed help for
our neighbors and friends with special needs. To those in need, the voluntary
agencies are a beacon of hope. Frequently, they are the only source for needed
assistance.
Through the Combined Federal Campaign, Federal workers and military
personnel are offered a unique opportunity to help persons in our community,
in our Nation and in overseas lands by one gift once a year. Their pledges can
be fulfilled through voluntary payroll deductions. I am confident that Mr.
Roudebush will have your wholehearted support in this endeavor. I urge you to
commend the campaign to Federal employees and military personnel in your
organization.
GERALD R. FORD
450
Memorandum on the Combined Federal Campaign.
May 11, 1976
[Dated May 10, 1976. Released May 11, 1976]
Memorandum for Federal Employees and Military Personnel
The Combined Federal Campaign gives each of us the opportunity to show
our individual concern for those in need. In this one campaign are combined
the annual fund-raising efforts of the local United Way, the National Health
Agencies, the International Service Agencies, and the American Red Cross.
Through the Combined Federal Campaign we can provide support for these
voluntary organizations which are working to make our community, our nation,
and the world a better place in which to live. Through CFC we can support
organizations which are performing essential services to the disadvantaged and
are serving the youth and the aged in our community. We can help voluntary
agencies which are working to lessen the pain and distress of illness and are
conducting research to seek cures from dreaded diseases. And we can assist
agencies which serve beyond our own national boundaries, extending a helping
1519
