June 7
[580]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
prosperous economy, and President Ford has restored the trust and confidence
of the American people in the White House. I want your help. I want your vote.
NOTE: The President spoke at 6:47 p.m. at the Elks Lodge. In his opening remarks, he referred to Repre-
sentative Tennyson Guyer.
580
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session at Bowling Green
State University in Bowling Green, Ohio. June 7, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Congressman Del Latta, Dr. Moore, Governor
Rhodes, Senator Bob Taft, Congressman Bud Brown, Congressman Chuck
Whalen, Mr. Shanklin, students, faculty, and guests of Bowling Green State
University:
It's great to be here. I have been looking forward to it. I have been here before.
And let me say, it is a pleasure to be here at the home of the Falcons.
When I left home to go to the University of Michigan a few years ago, some
people called it leaving the nest. Here in Bowling Green I hear you have a nest of
your own that some people never seem to leave. [Laughter] But I am not sure
whether they are talking about the Falcon's Nest¹ or the campus cemetery.
[Laughter]
Well, I had a prepared speech, and now I am going to talk to you straight.
I have had a wonderful trip to the great State of Ohio today. We started in
Cincinnati. We went up the western side of the State stopping in seven or eight
communities, and the warmth and the reception of the people of Ohio has been
just tremendous. And it is culminating here in this fantastic gathering here in
the Bowling Green State University fieldhouse, gymnasium—whatever you call
it. [Laughter] It's a wonderful facility, and I congratulate you on having a beau-
tiful campus.
But let me talk about some things that I think interest everybody-students,
faculty, townspeople—and I ask you to go back just about 22 months ago when
I became President of the United States. This country was in tough shape. We
had serious problems; we had gone through a traumatic experience.
August of 1974 wasn't the happiest period in the history of the United States.
August 9, I became President. The American people had lost confidence and
trust in the White House itself. The American people were faced with some
serious economic problems. Inflation was going along at a rate of 12 percent
1 A local bar.
1847
