[383]
April 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
The Consumer Price Index for the first quarter of 1976 reported an annual
rate of inflation of only 2.9 percent-the lowest rate of inflation in 4 years. I
can't guarantee it will continue to be that low with every report in the months
ahead, but when you look back to the 12.2 percent inflation we were experi-
encing in 1974 when I first became your President, you can easily see that we have
made real, solid, dramatic progress against inflation, and we are going to keep
the pressure on and on and on.
We have made a great deal of progress, also, in fighting the recession. More
than 86,700,000 Americans are on the job today. That's more than we've ever
had in the history of the United States on our work force.
Considering where we started, with the worst recession in 40 years, I would
say that's a pretty good comeback by any standard. Furthermore, the Depart-
ment of Commerce announced last week that the gross national product-the
value of all goods and services produced in America-rose at an annual rate
of 7½ percent in the first quarter of 1976.
Real earnings for the American worker are up dramatically over what they
were a year ago. Total retail sales are up 17 percent from last year. And the
index of consumer confidence is about double what it was 12 months ago.
The fellows who are after my job may try to deny it, but the plain fact of
the matter is we are on the road to a new prosperity in the United States of
America, and we are going to stay on that road in the months and years ahead.
Finally, let me say with this strong recovery, yes, it is gratifying. This Nation
has still not come to terms with one of the major causes of the recession itself.
I am referring to our dependence on foreign energy sources for domestic energy
needs. It is a tragic and very frustrating fact that our dependence has actually
increased rather than decreased since the Arab oil embargo of 1973.
During 1 week in March, for the first time in America's history, we im-
ported more crude oil and petroleum products than we produced here at home.
I have done everything possible-given the opposition of an uncooperative
Congress to remedy this serious situation.
I would like to trace a little history if I might. In my very first State of the
Union Message, in January of 1975, I laid out a plan to reverse those dangerous
trends that have placed not only our energy needs but our economic future in
jeopardy.
Fifteen months ago, I recommended decontrol of oil and new natural gas
prices. The Congress deliberated, delayed, debated, dawdled all the way from
January to December of last year and finally sent me an energy bill. It was a
long way from perfect, but at least it was a start. In that bill, the Congress
1274
