[509]
May 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
Q. Mr. President, will labor stop our exports any more?
THE PRESIDENT. They certainly won't, and I think you are raising a question
that others have raised. The allegation has been made, it's without fact or founda-
tion, that President Ford capitulated to some labor leaders.
Let me tell you, I vetoed the situs picketing bill, and that wasn't something
that they appreciated very much. So, let me assure you that there is no circum-
stance that I can foresee, none whatsoever, that there will be any limitation on
the exports of American agriculture, certainly as far as the next 4 years.
And so, I say to you that nobody, labor or any other segment of our society,
is going to interfere with the kind of things that must be done to help feed the
world, to help our farmers make an honest living and a prosperous living, and
to give the American people the kind of prosperity that I think we can achieve
with the kind of programs we have today.
Q. Mr. President, is the administration keeping a close watch on the meat
imports?
THE PRESIDENT. We certainly are. We have just about consummated the im-
port limitation that will set, I think, a figure that will be very sound. I think
it will be constructive. The announcement on that should be forthcoming very
shortly. And I think it will be effective, and I think it will be helpful.
Well, let me thank you all. I can't express deeply enough my appreciation for
you all taking a Sunday afternoon. It is a pleasure for me to meet you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:30 p.m. at the Pendleton Memorial Armory.
510
Exchange With Reporters on Arrival at El Toro Marine
Corps Air Station, California. May 23, 1976
BOB, those look great.' [Laughter] I can run faster and jump higher and do
better in California. That is why I am here, and I deeply appreciate your being
here and your thoughtfulness. This is a good way to make a rapid finish, and
we are going to do it in Kansas City and then in November.
But it is nice to be in California. We had a wonderful trip up in Oregon. We
are looking forward to spending 2 days or so here in California. We expect to
make a real strong-and I think, optimistically-fight here in California. We
¹Robert L.. Seagren, winner of the Olympic gold (1968) and silver (1972) medals in the pole vault
competition, presented the President with a pair of track shoes.
1666
