[463]
May 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
billions to the deficit, increase the probability of inflation, this President will
veto and veto and veto again and again and again.
One other thing. You know, with that $13 billion that we saved by those
vetoes over a period of 21 months, that saved the average family $200. So, the
Congress-the majority in the Congress, I should say-in my opinion, is finally
learning a lesson, because they aren't going to roll over me in the next few
months and they won't do it in the next 4 years, either.
But let me talk to you just a minute about trust. Let your mind go back to
August of 1974. This country had gone through one terrible time. There was a
loss of confidence in the Oval Office at the White House. There were scandals
in the government. People had lost faith in this great country of ours and people
in high places.
It wasn't easy to go in there after taking the oath of office, but I said at the
outset, and if you will remember, I said we were going to be open, we were going
to be straightforward, we were going to call them as we saw them, we were
going to be candid and forthright. I have kept that pledge to you, and we'll
keep that pledge for the next 4 years, just as well.
Now, as I look out through this audience and as I came in here from the out-
side, I saw some wonderful young people. And let me ask all of the parents
here, what is our aim? What's our objective? What are we trying to do as we
grow older and as we find our years slipping by? I know what I'm doing, and I
think I can look at every parent right here and say to him, each and every one
of us want to make a better world for our children and our grandchildren.
That's what America is all about.
And when our forefathers came, or even when some of us in this audience
might have come from foreign lands to the United States of America, the
country of freedom and opportunity, the net result is that we have developed
in America the greatest melting pot, the greatest mixture of people from all
lands in the history of mankind.
There is an old saying, you know, that the beauty of Joseph's coat is its many
colors. The strength of the character of America are the many people who come
from many lands throughout this great world in which we live.
The ethnic heritage, the ethnic churches, the wonderful dedication that we
have to our families and our churches and our clubs and our organizations, our
schools, that tie to the things that we have been brought up to do and to love
and to learn and to work at-and when you put it all in the pot and mix it up,
we come from many backgrounds with many heritages. But that's what makes
America the strong, powerful, kind, compassionate nation that we are, and
1548
