[351]
April 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
agreement, the effect of the debate between you and Ronald Reagan over
whether this country is first militarily?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I would not let any partisan or nonpartisan political
charges interfere with responsible negotiations involving an attempt to lower the
nuclear capability of the two super powers. If we don't negotiate a responsible
nuclear limitation on both parties, we could have a runaway nuclear holocaust
that would be disastrous from the point of view of the entire globe.
So, I am going to approach the problem in the future as I have in the past,
regardless of the political campaign, to try to lower the number of ballistic mis-
siles, of nuclear potential, and this will be done regardless of any party or partisan
politics.
REPORTER. Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Okay. Nice to see you all.
Not The exchange b gan at 6:25 pm. at War Cook Field after the Presidint reveived the key to th
city from Mayor William Hudnut
352
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session at a Public
Forum in Indianapolis. April 22, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Governor Bowen, Congressman Bud Hillis, Con-
gressman John Myers, Mayor Bill Hudnut, President Jones. Jack Guest, students,
faculty, and guests of Butler University:
Before getting into a very short text, I am glad that Governor Bowen men-
tioned my alma mater. Michigan had an unblemished record. We are the
only team in the country that lost three times to Indiana. [Laughter]
Well it is a very high honor and a very great privilege for me to participate in
the Butler University Student Assembly Lecture Series here this evening, and I
thank you for the opportunity, and I am deeply grateful for this wonderful
crowd.
I admire Butler University for many, many things but I must say that one
of your accomplishments is particularly impressive-that is, the ability of this
university to balance its budget in each of its last 20 years. I don't know how
many times President Jones had to use his veto to keep the budget in balance, but
whatever he is doing it sure seems to work, and I congratulate you.
As some of you know, I vetoed a few bills in my time-48 to be exact in a
20-month period, and 39 of those vetoes have been sustained by the Congress,
1148
