[610]
June 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
of hope and of promise, and let us, working together, light the path to a new
century of freedom for all Americans.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:24 a.m. at the
Indianapolis Convention Center. In his opening
remarks, he referred to Richard L. Robinson, na-
tional president, and Alfred Simensen, executive
vice president, United States Jaycees, Governor
Otis R. Brown of Indiana, and Mayor William
Hudnut of Indianapolis.
611
Letter to Congressional Committee Chairmen Transmitting
Report on the Status of Indochina Refugees. June 22, 1976
Dear Mr. Chairman:
In accordance with the provisions of the Indochina Migration and Refugee
Assistance Act of 1975, I am reporting to you on the status of refugees from
Cambodia and South Vietnam.
As this and my previous four reports show, remarkable progress has been made
in the resettlement of the Indochina refugees since my April 18, 1975 establish-
ment of a Federal program. Some 130,000 refugees were evacuated from Indo-
china and resettled in the United States before the end of calendar year 1975.
The task of providing the Indochina refugee the assistance necessary to his
becoming a self-reliant member of his new community has begun and continues.
Many refugees have already successfully made the transition into American
life. Substantial numbers, however, require financial, medical or educa-
tional assistance and this is being provided through private and public efforts.
Knowing the hopes and aspirations of these newcomers to our country and
the demonstrated support of the American people, I am confident that progress
will continue to be made.
Sincerely,
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters addressed
to the Honorable James O. Eastland, Chairman,
Senate Committee on the Judiciary; the Honorable
Peter W. Rodino, Chairman, House Committee on
the Judiciary; the Honorable John J. Sparkman,
Chairman, Senate Committee on Foreign Relations;
the Honorable Thomas E. Morgan, Chairman,
House Committee on International Relations; the
GERALD R. FORD
Honorable John L. McClellan, Chairman, Senate
Committee on Appropriations; and the Honorable
George H. Mahon, Chairman, House Committee
on Appropriations.
The report is entitled "HEW Task Force for
Indochina Refugees, Report to the Congress,
June 15, 1976."
1904
