[402]
April 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
many, many years, is clear indication to me that the Soviet Union has lost some
influence in the Middle East.
ROLE OF STATE GOVERNMENTS IN PRIMARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION
[3.] Q. Sir, I was wondering, do you favor some of the national standards
for secondary education—to take the role of setting these standards out of the
hands of the State governments-who we heard on the news recently-one State
government who said attendance was more important than acquiring the ver-
bal skills of reading and writing?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I'm not familiar with that particular report, but I don't
think the Federal Government ought to intrude on the rights of individual
States to set the educational standards at the secondary level. I assume you are
talking about high school and that area. When you say primary and secondary,
that is what I assume.
I don't see any need for the Commissioner of Education for the Federal Gov-
ernment to step in and decide for all 50 States what the standards should be.
That's one of those prerogatives that I think more properly should be in the
hands of the proper authorities at the State level.
Q. Does that go for the primary schools as well?
THE PRESIDENT. Oh, sure, primary or secondary. I was only addressing sec-
ondary because I was asked that question, but I certainly would include primary
as well.
BASIC EDUCATIONAL OPPORTUNITY GRANTS AND WORK-STUDY PROGRAM
[4.] Q. Mr. Ford, there are a few people in this room who have been involved
with the National Student Association, the National Student Lobby, and also
there are probably a few students in here that may be on the BEOG program
and working on the college work-study program.
And as I understand, your administration is recommending a cutback in the
college work-study program and an increase in the BEOG program for the
upcoming fiscal year appropriations. Could you explain the reasons for that?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, we did recommend a very substantial increase in the
BEOG program, so to speak, and a relatively minor reduction in the work-study
program. We think that the BEOG program, overall, with a ceiling of $1,400,
is the maximum that a person could get on BEOG and the average under our
funding of about $900 per student is the right approach.
Now, if it's of any solace to you, rightly or wrongly, I don't think the Con-
gress is going to cut back the work-study program. So, whether I recommended
1374
