[354]
April 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
more public service-oriented programs. It doesn't have to compete in the same
way that the private or commercial television organizations do in the entertain-
ment field, as such. So, I hope and trust that public television continues as it has.
We support it.
On the other hand, I don't want you encroaching on the field of the private
television people, and I don't want them to molest the responsible role that you
have in the information field.
THE FEDERAL BUREAUCRACY
[5.] Q. Mr. President, Vic Kasper from WILO Radio at Frankfort, Indiana.
On our last community ascertainment in our area, 7 of the 10 top problems were
either caused by the government or government-related. And on several of our
talk shows and citizen input-well, the top priority in terms of problems that
they see are in terms of the bureaucracy in our country and its cancerous effect
that it seems to be having on our free enterprise system.
A general question, but I would like to ask you your feelings and also, where
do you think we are going in the next 10 years in terms of the size of Government
and its, in some cases, insidious control over our lives?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, number one, one of the first things that I did when I
became President was to cancel the projected increase in Federal employment
and ordered that there should be a ceiling that would eliminate an anticipated
40,000 extra jobs in the Federal Government. As a matter of fact, we not only
eliminated that proposed increase but we saved about 10,000 or 15,000 jobs, as I
recall.
Number two, I know that the Federal bureaucracy has imposed on business,
on welfare recipients, on everybody, this problem of forms that have to be filled
out. And I checked on it shortly after becoming President and found that the
Federal Government was requiring a total of approximately 5,200 such forms to
be filled out by various individuals or organizations.
I ordered a 10-percent cutback. We are going to make that by June 30, which
was the date that I set. So, we are making headway not only in holding the
level but reducing Federal employment. And we are trying to get rid of some
of the onerous burdens that bureaucracy puts on individuals and organizations.
Now, where are we going? I see no reason whatsoever for any expansion of
the Federal bureaucracy. I think we've got enough agencies. I think we've got
enough commissions. I don't see any need to have a proliferation of the kind of
bureaucracy we have.
And let me give you an example: There is a tendency, every time somebody
1164
