424]
Public Papers of the Presidents
May 4
moratorium on imposition of Federal day care staffing standards that it voted
last October 2. This would give the Congress ample time to enact my pro-
posed Federal Assistance for Community Services Act, under which States
would establish and enforce their own day care staffing standards and fashion
their social services programs in ways they believe will best meet the needs
of their citizens.
NOTE: The Senate sustained the President - vetoon Ma. 5. 1976. (Ser Iton, Asi
425
Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual Report on Sickle
Cell Anemia. May 5, 1976
To the Congress of the United States:
I am pleased to transmit to the Congress the Third Annual Report on the
Administration of the National Sickle Cell Anemia Control Act (P.L. 92-294)
in accordance with the requirements of Section 1106 of the Public Health
Service Act.
Sickle cell anemia is the most common genetic blood disorder in the United
States. It is found predominantly, but not exclusively, in the black population
where it affects nearly 50,000 persons. The individual cost of sickle cell anemia
is tremendous; in addition to medical care and loss of time from school or
employment, the resulting psychosocial and educational problems makes ad-
vancement against this disorder of highest priority.
This year's report highlights the progress made in the implementation of the
National Sickle Cell Disease Program and other related activities of the Public
Health Service carried out by the National Institutes of Health, the Center for
Disease Control, and the Health Services Administration. We have continued
to move ahead in the areas of research, education and public awareness, screen-
ing and counseling, and rehabilitation.
Fifteen comprehensive Sickle Cell Centers have been established, bringing
together all aspects of research-basic, clinical, clinical application, and clinical
trials. Continuing education and community demonstration programs have been
included as integral parts of this important effort. This combination will permit
the Centers to develop new and innovative approaches to education, testing,
counseling and rehabilitation.
I
i
1466
