July 9
[657]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
I have not personally communicated with the Department, and I think they have
to make any judgments over there, not myself.
PRESIDENT FORD'S CAMPAIGN STRATEGY
[13.] Q. Mr. President, will Southern support be vital, and will it be ab-
solutely necessary for your election in November?
THE PRESIDENT. I hope to get support in all 50 States, Dick [Richard Growald,
United Press International]. We don't have any regional strategy. I have said
repeatedly that I expect to run a national campaign, and that certainly infers
that we want support from the South; we want support from the other regions
throughout the country.
Q. Do you think you can win without a good hunk of the South?
THE PRESIDENT. As I said, we want Southern support, and I think we will
get Southern support, and that will contribute to our victory in November.
SELECTION OF VICE-PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE
[14.] Q. Mr. President, Jimmy Carter has been holding auditions for a
running mate. Do you have a plan to do anything like that?
The President. I think I know most of the people that are among those that
we know would be a potential running mate. I am sure that I will have consulta-
tions, but we haven't set out any specific routine for it.
Q. Do you anticipate public announcements of people coming in for briefing
sessions?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't anticipate that kind of a routine, so to speak. As I
said, I know all of the people quite intimately. I know their records. I know
what they believe in. So I don't have to go through that experience such as
Governor Carter is going through, because I don't think he knows some of these
people that he is considering as well as I know all of the potential Republican
running mates.
Q. Mr. President, I got the impression from what you said to Phil Jones that
you might still be seriously considering throwing that choice open to the con-
vention, or at least giving them a list of names. Are you seriously contemplating
doing that?
THE PRESIDENT. I didn't mean to infer the conclusion you came to. I simply
said that we have not made any firm commitment as to what procedure we
would take at the time of the convention. I think a Presidential nominee ought
to make his wishes known to the delegates. How he proceeds after that, we
just haven't made a final decision on it.
1993
