May 26
[535]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Q. Was that yes?
THE PRESIDENT. I said I always support the Republican nominee.
EFFORTS TO INCREASE AND CONSERVE ENERGY RESOURCES
[5.] Q. Mr. President, gasoline prices are on their way up again. Is the lack
of a conservation ethic in the motoring public to blame, and what is your
administration doing to curb U.S. consumption of imported oil?
THE PRESIDENT. In January of 1975, about 15 months ago, I recommended to
the Congress a comprehensive energy program. It took the Congress from
January of 1975 to mid-December of 1975-10 or 11 months-to come up with
a bill that was half a loaf, but it was better than nothing. So, that legislation is
what we have to work with.
The net result is we haven't moved as fast as we ought to in producing addi-
tional domestic resources for energy in this country. If the Congress had been
wise enough to accept the energy bill that I proposed, we would be many, many
months ahead of where we are at the present time, and we wouldn't have the
kind of uncertainty as to our energy independence in the future.
I'm going to continue to do what I can under this restrictive legislation to free
the industry so that it can produce more domestic oil. I hope the Congress is
wise enough to pass some affirmative legislation so we get more new natural gas
available. I hope that we can stimulate more coal production. I hope and trust
that we can add to our nuclear power capability and do the necessary research
and development on solar energy and geothermal energy.
Now, if the Congress would move, as I urged them to do better than a year,
about 15 months ago, we would be a lot further ahead. I hope and trust that
in the process where we are faced with growing demand and unfortunately
growing reliance on foreign sources of oil, that we can get wholehearted public
conservation efforts. I can assure you that this administration will do all it can
under the law to provide for greater conservation.
Q. Are you pleased with the way the American people are viewing the energy
crisis as it is now?
THE PRESIDENT. It could be better, but I think the Congress is the greatest
culprit.
WITHDRAWAL OF CUBAN TROOPS FROM ANGOLA
[6.] Q. Mr. President, Secretary of State Kissinger is quoted as saying Cuba
has pledged to pull its troops out of Angola. It is a positive development, and he
has expressed pleasure at this.
Do we have any indication other than Castro's message to the Swedish Prime
1749
