[373]
April 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. When I found that I was coming down to Shreveport, I sus-
pected there might be a question on the Red River navigation project. And while
we were flying down, Joe Waggonner and John Breaux reminded me of the
interest of this community or this area in the Red River navigation project.
It just so happens that in the fiscal year 1977 budget that I submitted to the
Congress in January, there is money proposed to provide for the completion of the
levee system-if that's the right term-and also for lock and dam number 1-
the initiation of construction. If Congress approves that budget recommendation
some time in fiscal year 1977, that work can get underway.
FEDERAL AID TO CITIES
[4] Q. Mr. President, we are all aware of the plight that New York City
found itself in a year ago, and we admire your stand on the problem. What
would be the Federal policy for other cities, especially larger cities operating in
a deficit condition? Should they call on the Treasury?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think the problem that New York City developed for
itself should be an example to convince public officials in other communities
that they should not permit themselves to get into the same bind. Because I was
very firm in dealing with the mayor and the Governor of New York, we finally
worked out a program that I think, if they carry it out-and they going to
carry it out, or else—we can get them by their own bootstraps to straighten out
their problem.
We did agree to give them some money on a cash-flow basis because they have
peaks where they get money, and they have valleys where they have to spend
it, and their revenues don't equal their expenditures. But I can tell you that New
York City is on schedule as far as we're concerned.
We got a payment just a few weeks ago of their first payback. They paid us
back $270 million, and they paid us $5 million in interest. So, Uncle Sam didn't
do too badly.
ENERGY CRISIS
[5.] Q. Mr. President, I know that the people have lost confidence in just
about all elected officials today, from the President on down to the low office
that I have as an elected official. The people that I talk to—and I talk to them
every day from all walks of life and most every national convention I have at-
tended—and they don't believe that there is an energy crisis. They think it's like
the gasoline stations when they were lined up at the pumps-they're just getting
the prices up.
And I wish, if you could see your way fit on a national program-I know this is
1238
