April 29
[387]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
RONALD REAGAN
[19.] Q. Mr. President, I'm David Binder of the New York Times.
Following on Muriel Dobbins' and Tom Jarriel's question. Why, Mr. Presi-
dent, why, with a man you have described as irresponsible, simplistic, and
whom you compared yesterday to a donkey-[laughter]—why do you take
this man so seriously? Why don't you ignore him? Why do you give him such
prominence? Why do you have to meet him head-on ?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, because the charges, in effect, could arouse some appre-
hension in the minds of Americans, could raise some questions with our allies,
could raise some questions with our adversaries. And I want to reassure the
American people, I want to reassure our allies, and I certainly don't want any
misconceptions of our strength and our will as far as our adversaries are con-
cerned. I feel that I owe it to the American people to tell them the truth, to
state the facts, and to analyze for them as well as I can in these complicated areas,
the fact that we are strong, that we have the kind of a program that can meet
any challenge. I think that is my responsibility as President, regardless of any
political campaign.
Q. Well, exactly, I mean, you would tell the truth and analyze the facts and
present them and reassure allies with or without this particular opponent? I am
just wondering why you build him up so much?
The President. Well, because his charges have gotten a lot of publicity. And
there are a lot of clever one-liners that might appeal to some of our fellow citi-
zens if the facts and the overall picture is not presented to them, and that is
what I have sought to do.
Q. But do you have the impression that any of our allies or a large portion
of the American public has been swayed by your opponent's charges and
rhetoric?
THE PRESIDENT. I can't be sure, and I don't want to gamble. I want the public
to know the facts, and I want them to be reassured. And I want our allies to
be in the same position. We have to be sure that from the facts, the American
people can come to the right conclusion. And we can't let any campaigning
rhetoric undercut the strength and the will of the American people.
PRESIDENT'S DECISION TO SEEK ELECTION
[20.] Q. Mr. President, Lou Hanlon, KEYH-Radio News.
At the time that you mentioned a moment ago, of your appointment to the
office, throughout those hearings that were held you mentioned on several occa-
1307
