[362]
April 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
2 million to 4 million, you would undoubtedly have to have selective service or
the draft.
I think we can have a first-class Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marines, and
have it under an all-volunteer concept. You will have a more alert, you will
have a better trained, you will have a career force, and it will be a better mili-
tary organization.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at * 19 pm at Peachtree
High School. In his opening remarks, he referred to
Charles Huff, president of the D Kab Counts
Chamber of Commerce, and John M. Sni, prin
apal of Peachtree High School.
363
Remarks Upon Receiving the Annual Report of the Citizen's
Advisory Council on the Status of Women. April 24. 1976
THANK YOU very, very much, Senator Saiki. I have had an opportunity to
scan this and I certainly want to congratulate you and all of the other ladies for
the contributions that have been made in the analysis of the progress that's
been made, both educational, economic, as well as legal, in the status of women.
We have got a lot more to do, but the Citizens Advisory Committee has made
a great contribution, and I am sure in the months ahead those contributions will
be multiplied many, many times.
I regret very much that Mrs. Gutwillig could not be here, but I understand
that her husband is ill, and we certainly wish to her, as well as to her husband,
a rapid and full recovery.
I did notice one thing that bothered me-not what you all have done, but a
problem that you raise-a problem of a variation in the handling of pension
problems in the various Federal agencies. This is something that I think must be
clarified. I think it's a problem that must be resolved, and I strongly hope that
your group will make specific recommendations. I have asked the appropriate
agency in the Federal Government to get into it, to study it and to make recom-
mendations to me. It's a matter that must be resolved in order to provide equality
and I think equity as far as women are concerned.
I hope and trust that when we get this report next year that it will show
increased progress—the kind that has been made over the last 5 years. It's sig-
nificant, but we have to do better.
1208
