May 15
[485]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
whether it was in Western Europe or in the Pacific, were uncertain as to the
leadership in the White House, and they were uncertain of the will and the
resolve of the American people. And our adversaries abroad could have, if they
were so disposed, might have taken advantage of this uncertainty.
In the last 21 months I have tried to correct those problems. And if you look
at the record, Jerry Ford has done a good job, and he wants the job for another
4 years to do even a better job for all of you Americans. My program for the last
21 months has been one of peace, prosperity, and trust. We have the peace; we
achieved it. We have the military capability; we have the diplomatic skill to
keep the peace that we have now. And I pledge to you we will make a maxi-
mum effort, and we will be successful in keeping the peace in the future for this
country and for the world as a whole.
Let me say a word about the progress we have made in tackling effectively
the economic problems that I inherited. I told you about 12-percent inflation.
For the first 3 months of 1976 the rate of inflation on an annual basis has been
under 3 percent. That's a 75-percent reduction in the rate of inflation. That's a
darn good record, and we ought to be proud of it.
But, as I said, shortly after I took office we were hit with the worst economic
recession in 40 years. Unemployment went up, employment went down. But
let's talk about what has happened in the last year. A year ago this recession had
hit us very badly, but since last April and May we made tremendous progress.
In this 12-month period we have added 3,300,000 more jobs in America, and
in the month of April of this year 710,000 more people got employment, got
jobs in America. That's a good record. We ought to be proud of it. And accord-
ing to the Department of Labor, that reported to all of us a couple of weeks ago,
87,400,000 American people are gainfully employed in America today. It's the
highest number in the history of the United States. That's good, but in the next
4 years we will do better every year. I pledge that to you as the President of the
United States.
So, Betty and I are here as your President and First Lady-some of you call
her First Mama. We would like to serve you for the next 4 years, and we would
like to do it on the basis of a successful record. The election next Tuesday is a
very important election. It could give us the momentum that's needed and neces-
sary to win in Kansas City. It would give us the momentum to win the
November election.
One pledge that Jerry Ford has always made when I had the privilege of serv-
the Fifth Congressional District-Kent County, Ottawa County, Iona County,
and parts of several other counties-was that I was open, I was forthright,
1605
