May 23
[508]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
State of Oregon. I am glad to be here. I know you are always glad to be in
Oregon. This is God's country.
Some States have mountain ranges; some border on the ocean; some have fer-
tile and productive lands, broad forests, sparkling rivers. In some you can ski,
in others you can swim. But here in Oregon, you got it all.
My message to all of you in this beautiful spot here today in Pendleton can
be summed up in a very few words. As much as I believe in a strong and pros-
perous American automobile industry, I have come here to say that this year
is absolutely no reason whatsoever to trade in your reliable Ford for a flashier
model.
Let me tell you why I am asking you, my fellow Americans, for your support.
I have done a good job under the toughest kinds of circumstances, and I would
appreciate your wholehearted support. We have achieved and maintained the
peace, moved America on the road to prosperity, and we have restored the con-
fidence and trust in the Presidency of the United States.
I ask you for a mandate here in Oregon—and the American people—to finish
that job in the next 4 years.
Peace, prosperity, and trust are my record of performance since I became your
President. It is a record achieved against almost insurmountable obstacles. Con-
sider where we were in the very first few months of my Presidency. You will
recall vividly, as I can, some well-known economists, some labor and political
leaders who were predicting that we were heading into a deep depression, that
unemployment would exceed 10 percent and that we would have all kinds of
troubles for the next months and the next years.
They alleged that only massive Federal spending by the Government in
Washington could avert a catastrophe. Inflation had soared at an annual rate
of over 12 percent. Interest rates were going out of the roof. Far too many Amer-
icans were being laid off, and too few could find new jobs.
Just about a year ago, we hit the bottom of our worst recession in 40 years.
Many were urging me to push the panic button.
The Congress—the economy was bothering them as it was bothering me. The
economic downturn set off a clamor in the House, as well as in the Senate, for
huge emergency Federal subsidies and for more and more and more and
bigger and bigger Federal programs, which inevitably would have added sig-
nificantly to our deficit and contributed even greater to the inflation that we
were suffering.
The prophets of gloom were wrong. Because I had the faith in the American
economy and faith in the American people, I knew they were wrong. We didn't
1661
