July 9
[657]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
all the numbers, but when you analyze them, I think, objectively the Ford
nomination will prevail on the first ballot.
We have had some very good movement in individual States. We have had
good results, of course, in North Dakota. We expect good results next week. And
so when we go to Kansas City, I am very confident that we will prevail on the
first ballot.
VICE-PRESIDENTIAL RUNNING MATE
[3.] Q. Who do you want for a Vice-Presidential running mate?
The President. Fran [Frances Lewine, Associated Press], I don't exclude
anybody. We've got a wealth of talent, and I think it's premature to winnow
that list down. We have to take into consideration a number of factors-the
prime one, of course, being an individual who would be an excellent President.
But there are other factors that have to be taken into consideration, and until
we get closer to the convention, I think it is too early to make any real
speculation.
Q. Would you rule anyone out like—would you rule Mr. Reagan out?
THE PRESIDENT. I repeat, I exclude nobody. And I hope that individuals in
the meantime will not exclude themselves, because we want the best ticket we
can get to win in November.
ISRAELI RESCUE OF HOSTAGES IN UGANDA
[4.] Q. Mr. President, Governor Reagan made the statement when apprised
of the Israeli rescue raid in Uganda, “This is what Americans used to do.” And
one of the hostages, who is an American citizen said America didn't "give a
damn about us, Israel freed us.” I wonder, what is your reaction?
The President. I can assure you that this administration has taken a firm
action wherever we have been confronted with any illegal international action.
The best illustration of course is what we did in 1975 in the Mayaguez incident.
I think that was a clear warning to any nation that violates international law
that this administration will act swiftly and firmly and, I think, successfully.
Q. If I could follow that up, the State Department said—when asked, “What
is the United States doing?"-said that they had contacted numerous govern-
ments as well as the International Red Cross. What else did we do to compare
with the Israeli action?
THE PRESIDENT. We took whatever action we felt was appropriate at that
time to indicate our strong feeling against international terrorism, and we asked
for the full cooperation of all governments to make certain that the hostages
were freed.
1989
