May 2
[415]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
ment intervention. They have been given new freedom to meet the challenge
of the open market and have been rewarded for it.
Not only is farm income improving but business is improving-employment
is going up and inflation is going down. We have succeeded in stalling the
vicious, upward spiral in the cost of living.
The Department of Commerce figures for the first quarter of 1976—that's,
January, February, and March-show an annual rate of increase in the
Consumer Price Index of less than 3 percent. That's a reduction of 75 percent
from the double-digit inflation that we had when I was sworn in as President
in August of 1974. We did this because we had the right policies. And, those
policies that are strong and constructive and fundamentally sound will be
continued.
Now, the majority in the Congress obviously believes that more direct Federal
intervention in our economic recovery is required to keep it going. They believe
higher Federal spending on a host of social programs will stimulate a more
rapid recovery and that the Government should provide jobs for everybody if
private employers don't do so fast enough. They believe that an acceptable price
for economic recovery is a new round of higher and higher and higher inflation.
They believe that bigger Federal deficits are required to keep the recovery
underway.
They are wrong. You know it and I know it. We will not achieve the full
employment by letting the Federal Government plan and control the national
economy. We will not achieve full employment by relying on the Federal
Government to create hundreds and hundreds of jobs, of deadend jobs, at the
taxpayers' expense.
We have not based this recovery-which is one of phenomenal success-on
government quick fixes, but on the solid foundation of the American private
enterprise system and, as a result, we are in a far better shape economically than
we were a year ago. And we are going to get better and better in the months
ahead.
Speaking of these big budget-busting bills that the majority in the Congress
wanted to thrust down our throat, let me cite some facts: Since I have been
President, I have vetoed 48 bills. That is, I think, a record. Thirty-nine of them
have been sustained by the Congress, and in the process of those vetoes, we have
saved the taxpayers $13 billion.
May I add, if the Congress sends any more of these budget-busting bills down
to the Oval Office, they will be vetoed again and again and again.
But material progress in the United States will be of little comfort to us if
1409
