[398]
April 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
guerrilla action that will stop the use of the canal now and inevitably it will
antagonize our friends and neighbors below the border. And I think a better
policy is to do what we are doing-negotiating. And, it's a policy that will pro-
tect our interest. And this President will never do anything to injure, harm
our overall national interest in the Panama Canal.
AMERICA'S DEFENSE CAPABILITIES
[11.] Q. Mr. President, my name is Dwight Johnson. I go to Southerville
High School, and I'm a student. I am in the student executive assistance pro-
gram sponsored by the Chamber of Commerce and the DISD. My question is:
Do you think our military power is at its best level to fully protect our Nation,
and if not, do you plan to increase our national budget to do this in case of a
national crisis?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I've already taken the action in 1975 and again in 1976
to recommend to the Congress the necessary funding to make sure, not only
last year but this year and the years ahead, that the defense capability of the
United States is fully adequate to meet any challenges from abroad.
I recommended a year ago the biggest defense budget in the history of the
United States, and I recommended this year again the largest military budget
in the history of the United States—a 14-percent increase over the one of last
year.
Now, let me take a minute, if I might, to discuss this overall problem.
For the last 10 years the Congress has cut $50 billion from various Presidents'
national defense budget recommendations, and the net result is that there has
been a decline in the spending on a real dollar basis by the United States for our
Army, our Navy, our Air Force, and Marines.
When I became President, as I indicated a moment ago, in the first budget
that I submitted I tried to reverse that trend, and the budget that I submitted this
last January, even to a greater degree, reverses that trend.
Now, the net result is, in trying to convince the Congress they should cooperate
with us rather than hurt us, we have used certain statistics. We have used some
of the statistics that my Republican opponent now quotes. Those are our
statistics, not his. And we have also used some other statistics that provide a better
balance.
It is true that the Soviet Union has 4 million men under arms and that we have
2 million men under arms. But if you look at the kind of forces that they have in
the 4 million, you find that only about 2,200,000 are what we would call
comparable to ours.
1358
