[328]
April 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
the total number of jobs in the United States today, we have 86,700,000, an all-
time record. We are doing something right, and we are going to keep on doing
it right, so we can keep that employment going up and unemployment going
down.
Then, if somebody should say, why doesn't President Ford balance the
budget? Let me tell you what we are trying to do. Since I became President, I
vetoed 47 bills. That is an alltime record. And if Congress is so unwise to keep
sending down these bloated appropriations bills, we will veto them again and
again and again. It just might interest you to know that by the vetoing of those
bills-and the Congress sustaining 39 of the 47-we have saved the taxpayers $13
billion. That is a lot of dough.
Now let me make a comment or two about where we stand internationally
and in defense of the United States. In January of 1975, I submitted to the Con-
gress the largest military appropriations bill in the history of this country. Un-
fortunately, the Congress cut $7.5 billion of it. In January of this year, I sub-
mitted an even larger military budget of $112.4 billion. I hope the Congress
won't cut this one. All I am citing is that every year since I have been President
we have sought to maintain and to strengthen our strategic and conventional
forces. Let me assure you of one thing. Our military capability in the United
States is unsurpassed by any other nation in the world, and we are going to keep
it there.
When you add up our military capability, our industrial capacity, our agri-
cultural production, our scientific and technological superiority and, most im-
portantly, our moral and religious and spiritual leadership, the United States
is number one. And we are going to keep it there, period.
I hope a few emphatic points like that will convince a few "doubting
Thomas'" so you can go out and get better than 51 percent votes for those four
stalwart delegates that come from this congressional district. I am going to be
watching you. [Laughter] And I am going to count on you. And we won't let
you down.
Thank you very much.
NOTE. The President spoke at 12 pm in the
H Paso Room at the El Paso Civic Center. He was
introduced by Senator John G. Tower, chairman of
the Texas President Ford Committer
1092
