May 3
[419]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
very substantial crossover, and we hope that we can get a good vote from all
citizens in the State of Alabama.
Q. Governor Reagan says that he is the only Republican who can carry the
South in a race against Jimmy Carter. What's your response to that?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think that is an accurate statement. I have been in the
South a good many times campaigning for various candidates. I have a good
many friends in the South. My policies are aimed at improving the economy
all over the United States, including the South. I think I have an excellent
chance of winning against any Democratic candidate.
Q. In Indiana, you said that Mr. Reagan might be, in your words, rash in
using the power of the Presidency. What do you mean by that?
THE PRESIDENT. Certainly, when he talks about using military strength first
in the settling of the Panama Canal, instead of my program which means
negotiation first and then the utilization of whatever we have to do if
negotiations fail, I think that's a rash statement. I think it's a very unacceptable
one at this point.
Q. Mr. President, your loss in Texas coupled with a poll showing you are
doing poorly in Alabama and Georgia—do you plan to reorganize your
committee to reelect?
THE PRESIDENT. Not at all. We have had a strategy right from the beginning
that meant we were going to win in Kansas City, and I think without any
question of a doubt, we will go to Kansas City with enough delegates to win.
Q. Mr. President, will any change in our current relationship in the Panama
Canal be made through a formal treaty submitted to the Senate, or will you
do it through an executive agreement?
THE PRESIDENT. Certainly, we would do it in the constitutional way, which
means that any treaty would, of course, be submitted to the Senate for
ratification. And also, under the unique circumstances that involve the Panama,
it would be expected that we would also submit it to the Congress as a whole.
Q. Mr. President, can you talk about a possible Southern running mate?
Would any of those possibly be from Alabama?
THE PRESIDENT. We have a wealth of material here in the Republican Party,
and Alabama included. I think it's premature to start identifying individuals.
Certainly, people from Alabama would not be ruled out automatically.
REPORTER. Thank you very much.
NOTE: The exchange began at 2:01 p.m. at the Bir-
mingham Municipal Airport. In his opening remarks,
the President referred to Representative John H.
Buchanan, Jr.
1447
