April 30
[407]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
system. May I say to each and every one of them and to the faculty, thank you
very, very much for this thoughtfulness.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:52 p.m. at the
Abilene Civic Center. In his opening remarks, he
referred to Bill Taylor, president of the Abilene
Jaycees, L. A. Anderson, president of the Abilene
Chamber of Commerce, and Dr. James Flemming,
pastor, First Baptist Church of Abilene.
407
Remarks to President Ford Committee Volunteers in Abilene.
April 30, 1976
THANK YOU very, very much, John. First, let me express by appreciation for
Senator Tower's wonderful support. He has been with me in the 3½ days that
I have been in Texas and no one could have been stauncher, more steadfast, and
more loyal; and more effective, I might add, because so many people in Texas
respect John Tower, and for good reason. Thank you very, very much, John.
I also want to thank each and every one of you who are working for the
President Ford Committee. I know how much time it takes and how much
effort it is, and I can't express deeply enough my gratitude and appreciation.
But, as Senator Tower said, if we win in Kansas City, I can be elected in
November. I am the Republican candidate that can be elected and can carry
through on the moderate conservative policies that we believe in. So, that is
why Texas is so important, that is why other States are so critical.
So, I thank you for the efforts in getting the nomination, which I think will
be very influenced by the decision tomorrow. I want to represent the Republican
Party and win for the Republican Party, and the philosophy that it stands for,
and I can. And I believe no other Republican candidate can win.
And let me tell you very quickly why I think we can win on the basis of policy
and programs. You know that we have taken this economy when it was in the
depths about a year ago and we brought it up so that we are now on the road
to a healthy, continuous era of prosperity. I know that the women here particu-
larly are affected by the cost-of-living increase.
Think back to August of 1974. The cost of living was escalating at that time
at the rate of 12 percent or better and in the month of March, in the month of
February, and in the month of January this year, a 3-month period, we had cut
the rate of inflation to under 3 percent. That is a 75-percent decrease or reduction
in the rate of inflation in this country.
I think that is a great achievement and we have done it because we have been
strong in dealing with the Congress, vetoing 48 bills, getting 39 of them sus-
1397
