May 24
[513]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Vallejo, not a single member of the city's home alert program had their homes
burglarized during all of 1975.
Americans have always stood united. Americans have always stood strong
against all enemies. Crime and drug abuse are enemies that we can overcome,
but there must be a very deep, personal, and a deep national dedication to that
goal.
If I had to sum up the record of my administration in just a few words, it
would be peace, prosperity, and trust in America.
Today, America is at peace. Your sons are not being drafted, and they are
not dying on any battlefield. I want to maintain the peace, advance the peace
among all nations, secure the peace through strength and perseverance, and
leave that legacy of peace for our children and their children.
I will continue my policies of the last 21 months of cutting your taxes, expand-
ing the private economy, reducing bureaucracy and useless regulation, and
restraining Federal spending. These policies have brought us from the depths
of a recession to a sustained recovery and will insure that runaway inflation never
robs us again or our loved ones of the honest work and their lifetime savings.
I want to pursue a steady course that led from war to peace, from recession to
recovery, from cynicism to confidence, from fear to faith. Finally, I want to
finish the most important job-restoration of trust in the Presidency itself.
As your President, I will promise no more than I can deliver, and I will de-
liver everything that I promise. The reason that I am in this race—and I'm in it
to stay—is to ensure peace, prosperity, and trust for the future of the 215 mil-
lion Americans.
The future belongs to those of us who come after you and myself and our
fellow Americans. We Americans have always known that life will be better for
our children than it was for us, because life for us has been better than it was
for our parents and our grandparents.
What do I see ahead for this wonderful country? I see a strong and confident
America, secure in a strength that cannot alone be counted in megatons, and a
nation rejoicing in riches that cannot be eroded by inflation or by taxation.
I see an America where life is valued for its quality as well as its comfort,
where the individual is inviolate in his constitutional rights, where the govern-
ment serves and the people rule.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:50 a.m. in the
Grand Ballroom at the Sheraton Anaheim Hotel.
In his opening remarks, he referred to Evelle J.
Younger, California State attorney general, and
Sheriff Larry Gillich, president of the association.
1679
