May 12
[461]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
should focus on the right target, some of the Members of the House as well as
the Senate.
When I say Congress, I mean of course the controlling majority of the Con-
gress, not the responsible minority which includes members of both political
parties who have stood with me for the principles of national security and deficit
restraint. It is not Washington that is the problem, but the wrong people in
Washington who are the problem.
The majority of the present Congress are the problem in the economic field.
By their own budget decisions, they have said that they want to spend $18 billion
more next year than I have recommended. They have said that the American
people cannot have instead the additional $10 billion tax cut that I want to give
them on July 1. This congressional majority has decided that they know much
better how taxpayers' money, that they have earned, should be spent to help
the economy than the people who earned it. They, this majority in the Congress,
are the problem. I have been trying to hold them back but the American people
in this election will have an opportunity to help.
The same congressional majority for almost a decade before I became Presi-
dent have been hacking away each year at the defense budget to pay for their
favorite social programs. They went on cutting another $7 billion from the
first defense budget that I submitted. Fortunately, it looks like we have turned
them around, but, nevertheless, they are the problem. We're converting them,
but the American people in this election will again have to help.
Frankly, that is why I am in this race, why I want a mandate from the Ameri-
can people in 1976, why I want to be your President for the next 4 years. I seek
election to the Presidency not for myself, but as the only way to ensure the conti-
nuity of realistic, responsible policies that are right for America and, what is
more, are being proven right every passing day.
I want to maintain the peace that we now enjoy, advance the prospects for
peace among all nations, secure that peace through strength and perseverance,
and make certain that legacy of peace continues for our children and our grand-
children.
I want to continue the policies of reliance on the private economy, reduction
of taxes, cutting back bureaucracy and useless regulation, and budgetary and
spending restraint that have brought us up from the depths of recession to a
sustained recovery, and to make certain that runaway inflation never again robs
us or our loved ones of the rewards of honest work and lifetime savings.
Finally, I want to finish the most important job that I have begun—the resto-
1539
