April 27
[368]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
country as Customs now has the authority to search for contraband entering the
country.
I shall ask Congress to pass legislation requiring the forfeiture of cash or
other personal property found in the possession of a narcotics violator-where
it is determined that it was used or was intended for use in connection with an
illegal drug transaction.
I shall ask Congress to change provisions of the law which allow the seizure
of vehicles, boats and aircraft used to smuggle drugs. At present, these may be
seized by administrative action only if the value of the property is less than $2,500;
otherwise action by a Federal judge is necessary.
This $2,500 limitation is out of date and must be changed. Therefore, I shall
ask Congress to raise to $10,000 the ceiling for administrative forfeitures. This
will not only make law enforcement against traffickers more swift and more
effective but it will also help to relieve court congestion.
I shall ask Congress to tighten the provisions of the law relating to small pri-
vately owned boats reporting to Customs after their arrival. At present, the
masters of these vessels have 24 hours to report their arrival to Customs-and
that is ample time to unload contraband. I shall ask Congress to pass legislation
requiring such vessels to report to Customs immediately upon their arrival.
I call on Congress also to ratify an existing treaty for the international control
of synthetic drugs.
Over the past fifty years the major nations of the world have worked out treaty
arrangements for the international control of drugs with a natural base, such as
opiates and cocaine. But no similar arrangements exist for the control of synthetic
drugs—such as barbiturates, amphetamines and tranquilizers; and the abuse of
these synthetic drugs is a growing problem which is now almost as serious as
the abuse of heroin in the United States.
Five years ago the United States played a major role in the preparation of the
1971 Convention on Psychotropic Substances, a treaty to deal with international
traffic in synthetic drugs. But the Senate has not yet ratified this treaty, and Con-
gress has not yet passed the enabling legislation.
The delay in U.S. ratification of the Convention has been an embarrassment to
us. Moreover, it has made it extremely difficult for us to urge other countries to
tighten controls on natural-based narcotic substances, when we appear unwilling
to extend international controls to amphetamines, barbiturates and other psycho-
tropic drugs which are produced here in the United States.
So far, I have emphasized the need for additional legislation and Congressional
action.
1221
