May 15
[485]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
and ending up here in Niles, on this whistlestop tour through the heartland
of Michigan. The idea of this trip today I think took me back to a campaign by
a great Democratic President, Harry S Truman, when he whistlestopped across
the country, and a great Republican President, Ike Eisenhower, and both of
them were successful. So, this train trip through the heartland of Michigan is
going right on to Kansas City, and from Kansas City we are going to win in
November.
Now, we have got a big election next Tuesday. I think we have done a good
job in the last 21 months, and I want your vote next Tuesday.
Let me tell you what we have done in the 21 months that I have been Presi-
dent. Let your mind go back to the tough days in August of 1974. There had
been a tremendous loss of confidence by the American people in our govern-
ment, in the White House. We were on the brink of an economic recession,
the worst in 40 years. Inflation was at the rate of 12 percent per year. In foreign
policy, our allies were uncertain as to what we were going to do and our ad-
versaries were in a position where they might have taken advantage of the
uncertainty here at home.
When I took that oath of office on August 8 [9], the United States needed
some leadership, both at home and abroad. We started out by setting forth what
we were going to do to correct our economic problems. We have set a very
steady course, and the net result was, inflation, which was 12 percent in 1974,
is under 3 percent today. That's a good record, and we ought to be proud of it.
And then, a year ago, we were in the depths of a recession. Again, there were
those throughout the country that wanted us to press a panic button-add a lot
of people to the Federal payroll, approve budget-busting bills that would have
increased the inflationary pressures.
But, instead, I decided that the right thing to do was to hold firm, to veto
the kind of legislation that was sent down from Capitol Hill. And, as many of
you know, I vetoed 49 bills; 42 of them have been sustained, and we saved the
American taxpayer $13 billion. That's a darn good record.
But then, a year ago, we started our climb out of the recession. In 12 months,
from last May to this May, we added 3,300,000 more jobs in America, 710,000
more jobs in May [April] of 1976. And the net result is that in May of this
year we had 87,400,000 people gainfully employed in this country, an alltime
record, and we ought to be proud of that.
But, the third point, the United States is at peace today. We have the military
capability to maintain the peace. We have the diplomatic skill to convince our
allies that we are strong and our adversaries that they ought to be respectful of
1607
