[402]
April 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
money from all of the departments, there are some very able people, like you,
who say, "Now, don't save $7 million, we need it," and I—somebody has to
make those decisions.
But let me say, that's not the only program. You know the Department of
HEW issued title IX regulations, and those regulations, if carried out, I think
will really achieve significant, affirmative action in trying to accomplish what
you are really seeking to achieve. Now, that's not a unanimous program, as I
am sure you understand. There are some who strongly oppose it.
But HEW took the initiative, and they are seeking to implement it, and I
don't really think—without getting into it personally—that that dollar difference
will have a significant adverse impact on what you are trying to achieve.
POSSIBILITY OF SEPARATE DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
[9.] Q. Have you ever thought of creating a separate department for educa-
tion, at the Cabinet level?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, that's been discussed, pro and con. We have an out-
standing Secretary of HEW now, David Mathews, formerly the president of
the University of Alabama. I have talked to him about it-and here is an educa-
tor—and, if I properly reflect his views, he doesn't think we ought to have a
separate department of education.
Q. Mr. President, in an age of increasing complexity and which demands
split-second decisions, I was just curious about what brand of skis do you use?
[Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I use Rossignols most of the time, but I also use K-2's
and use some others. I don't think the skis make much difference to me
[Laughter] I'm just lucky to stand up.
It's nice to see you all, and thank you, and the very best to all of you. It's been
a pleasure to be here at the campus of Texas Tech. And you know, Michigan
almost would have played Texas Tech in the play-offs of the NCAA, but un-
fortunately you lost to Missouri by one point. We almost-for three quarters-
beat Indiana. [Laughter]
Thank you again, and good luck to you. And we appreciate the chance to be
on your campus and meet all of your fellow students and meet all of you. Good
luck to you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:37 p.m. in Meeting Room 1 at the Hilton Inn.
1378
