May 25
[526]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
surging prosperity. Everything that is supposed to be going up is going up
everything that is supposed to be going down is going down.
and
Finally, I think I have restored trust in the White House and the Oval Office.
I want to pursue a steady, constructive course that has led us from war to peace,
from recession to recovery, from cynicism to confidence, and from fear to faith.
With your support, with your mandate for the next 4 years, I will continue to
work for an America where life is valued for its quality as well as for its com-
fort, where the individual is inviolate in his constitutional rights, and where
the government serves and the people rule.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:10 p.m. at the
Center for the Performing Arts. In his opening
remarks, he referred to Halsey Burke, master of
526
ceremonies and chairman of the Santa Clara County
President Ford Committee, and Mayor Janet Gray
Hayes of San Jose.
Remarks at a President Ford Committee Reception in San
Jose. May 25, 1976
WHEN I look at all this wonderful talent and these fine supporters, obviously I
can't help but be enthusiastic about our opportunities and our prospects on
June 8.
We have found in the last week a real surge in the momentum. We went
through a tough time. We didn't lose our cool. And then along came Maryland
and Michigan-did pretty well by us. [Laughter]
The nicest thing is the old congressional district that I represented, they gave
me 85 percent of the vote. I must tell you about one precinct. It is down in a rural
area, a good agricultural area called Overrizen. They have a lot of good Dutch-
men there and they know how to vote. [Laughter] They have three churches
and a couple of gas stations and a school. And when they added up all the votes
last Tuesday-595 for Ford and 2 for Mr. Reagan.
I don't expect to do quite that well here in Santa Clara County, but what I do
hope we can do is convince the people of San Jose, Santa Clara County, and the
people of California that the programs we have implemented, which we can
summarize very quickly—the restoration of public confidence in the White
House, the turning around of our economy from the serious economic recession,
with good policies, so that we are on the upswing where I think we can have, if
we don't get sidetracked by the Congress, a solid and very prosperous economy in
the months ahead.
1719
