[597]
June 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
597
Statement on Signing Legislation Relating to the Publication of
Spanish-American Economic and Social Statistics.
June 16, 1976
I AM pleased to be signing today H.J. Res. 92, a measure which emphasizes the
need for a sound program of Federal statistics regarding the millions of Amer-
icans of Spanish origin or descent.
As stated in the preamble to this Joint Resolution, Spanish-origin Americans
have made significant contributions to enrich American society and have served
our Nation well in time of war and peace. To encourage and assist their full
participation in all aspects of American life, it is important that we have ade-
quate and accurate information about their economic and social conditions.
Such information, gathered through the major statistical programs of the
Federal Government, can help provide the basis for action on the part of gov-
ernments at all levels-Federal, State, and local. In addition, action by private
organizations can better assist Americans of Spanish origin and descent in
achieving a better life.
The major Federal statistical agencies already gather and publish much of
the data required for determining the conditions and needs of this often disad-
vantaged group. And these agencies have made significant improvements in
their efforts to help assure that such needed information is available.
I applaud these efforts and the increased impetus they will receive as a result
of the enactment of H.J. Res. 92.
598
Special Message to the Congress Requesting Funds To Implement
the U.S.-Turkey Defense Cooperation Agreement.
June 16, 1976
To the Congress of the United States:
I am hereby requesting that Congress approve and authorize appropriations
to implement the Agreement Between the Governments of the United States of
America and of the Republic of Turkey Relative to Defense Cooperation Pur-
suant to Article III of the North Atlantic Treaty in Order to Resist Armed At-
tack in the North Atlantic Treaty Area, signed in Washington, March 26, 1976,
1882
