May 24
[521]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
12 percent to 3 percent or less in the first 4 months of 1976. That's a 75-percent
reduction.
The people have to have jobs, and if you go back for the last 12 months and
bring it up to date, we have added 3,300,000 jobs in a 12-month period—
710,000 more jobs in the last month. And at the present time we have 87,400,000
people gainfully employed, people who have jobs in America. It's an alltime
record. And this is, I think, a great accomplishment. We did it without busting
the treasury, without adding to our deficit significantly. It's my judgment that
the policies we have pursued in the economic field have been healthy for
America.
Now, I know you have some particular problems right here in San Diego,
but I might add we have had some terrible problems in my State of Michigan. I
was up there before the primary, and the people in Michigan had a real strong
feeling that things were on the right track, we're on the up side. As a matter of
fact, if you look at all the economic factors that economists shower you with
from time to time, everything that is supposed to be going up is going up and
everything that's supposed to be going down is going down, so I'm darned proud
of the record. It's good for America.
So, when you add up increasing prosperity, restoration of faith and trust in
the White House, and the fact that we have achieved the peace, we're maintain-
ing it and we're going to keep it in the future with our military capability and
our diplomatic skill, I think the record justifies another 4 years.
One final comment. As much as I want a strong and prosperous American
automobile industry, I don't think it's the time for the public to trade in a
reliable Ford for a flashier model.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 6:05 p.m. at the West-
gate Plaza Hotel. In his opening remarks, he re-
ferred to Maggie Mazur, cochairman of the San
Diego County President Ford Committee.
521
Exchange With Reporters at San Diego Harbor, California.
May 24, 1976
QUESTION. Mr. President, what was your decision on the tuna issue?
THE PRESIDENT. I indicated very strongly that the administration does not
agree with Judge Richey's decision, and if it requires that there should be new
legislation, the administration would support something like the legislation
1699
