5231
May 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
SCHOOL BUSING
[6.] Q. Mr. President, I wanted to know whether you believe that there are
some situations in which busing could help toward the implementation of the
1954 Supreme Court school desegregation ruling?
THE PRESIDENT. Basically, I have opposed the kind of busing remedy that the
courts have utilized for the achievement of quality education. I think the courts
have gone much too far in most cases in trying to achieve quality education by
the imposition of court-ordered forced busing to achieve racial balance.
I am strongly opposed to segregation. I fully uphold the constitutional rights
of those who have been discriminated against in the past. But the court really
has a tool in court-ordered forced busing.
I can cite one case that I am personally familiar with where they handled that
remedy in a responsible way-my own hometown of Grand Rapids, Michigan.
A judge used good judgment and the problem was solved. We took care of
segregation in a proper way constitutionally and, at the same time, we were able
to put the emphasis on quality education.
But I can site some other judges—and I won't do that because the Attorney
General admonishes me not to do so-where I think they have gone far too far,
and the net result is we have torn up a number of communities, and it is tragic
and sad.
I hope that the Supreme Court, in the proper case, can give some better guide-
lines, more specific guidelines to some of these lower Federal courts so that
they can use a better judgment in trying to achieve, first, quality education
and, secondly, the ending of segregation, and the protection of constitutional
rights.
DOMESTIC PRIORITY OF FORD ADMINISTRATION
[7.] Q. Mr. President, if given 4 more years, what will be your administra-
tion's top domestic priorities?
THE PRESIDENT. The top domestic priority would be to ensure that this country
has the kind of economic strength and equity that I think we can achieve. We
have to get our rate of inflation down lower than it is even today. We have to
provide jobs for the 1,800,000 young people who are coming into the labor mar-
ket every year. We have to expand our capability to meet the thrust and the
challenge of other economies around the world, both those behind the Iron
Curtain and those in our free industrial society.
If we can provide the economic climate that I think-this Nation has such a
1712
