[570]
June 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
REPORTER. Thank you very much.
THE PRESIDENT. It is real nice to see you all. See you tomorrow.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:15 p.m. at the
Greater Cincinnati Airport. In his opening remarks,
he referred to Gov. James A. Rhodes of Ohio,
Senator Robert Taft. Jr. Representative Gordon
Scherer of Ohio 1953-63. and Representative
Clarence E. Miller.
571
Remarks at the Hamilton County Republican Club
Breakfast in Cincinnati. June 7, 1976
My old and very dear friend, Bob Taft, Governor Rhodes, distinguished Mem-
bers of the House of Representatives, Willis Gradison, Don Clancy, Bill Harsha,
Clarence Miller, Bud Brown, Tom Kindness, Keith McNamara, and all of the
organization people, Earl Barnes, Gil DeCourcy, Steve Bollinger, and all of you
some 1,200 who make up, as Bob Taft said, the finest Republican organization
in any part of the country:
I thank you for coming here this morning. June 8, tomorrow, is the Super
Bowl of the 33 primaries. The State of California has 167 delegates being elected
tomorrow; Ohio, 97; New Jersey, 67.
Our campaign has 105 committed delegates. We want to maximize our
efforts in New Jersey and Ohio, and we want to make a good fight and maybe
win in California. But you know traditionally, in the last few years, at least,
Ohio has on a certain date in November given Michigan a bad time. [Laughter]
A few weeks ago the State of Michigan gave me a 65-percent majority. This
is one time-tomorrow-I would like to see Ohio beat the Michigan record.
Coming from Michigan, of course, I am very, very much in favor of a strong
and prosperous automobile industry. I think it's important, and you in Ohio have
a very crucial impact on the automobile industry. But in 1976 I don't want to
see a reliable Ford turned in for a flashier model. [Laughter]
Let me relate the circumstance that existed when I became President in Au-
gust of 1974. As Bob Taft said, the country had gone through a very traumatic
experience. There had been a loss of confidence and trust in the White House.
We were suffering inflation of 12 percent or more. The workingman was losing
money almost every day because his wages weren't as high as the inflation that
was affecting him. We were on the brink of the worst economic recession in
40 years. In foreign policy, our allies were uncertain as to the will, as to the
resolution of the American people. Our adversaries, because of our uncertainty,
1826
