May 26
[533]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Q. I didn't think you were going to call on me.
THE PRESIDENT. The last; the best.
Q. Do you think winning the border States will have any impact on
California?
The President. Well, certainly the winning of the two border States con-
tradicts what some of my opponent's friends have said—that I can't win below
the Mason-Dixon line. Of course, winning in Kentucky and Tennessee is a
good indication that we have a lot of support in those kind of States, and I'm
convinced that I'm the best national candidate and the one Republican who can
win nationally against any Democrat.
I'm not a regional candidate; I'm a national candidate. And I know I can
win. I have some reservations about any other Republican candidate being able
to win in November.
Q. Is Mr. Reagan a regional candidate in your mind?
THE PRESIDENT. He has had a Sun Belt strategy, as I understand it. I will let
his record speak for itself.
Thank you all very, very much.
REPORTER. Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:20 a.m. at San Jose Airport.
533
Remarks in Columbus at the Annual Meeting of the Ohio
Governor's Conference on Aging. May 26, 1976
THANK YOU very, very much, Jim, distinguished members of the Ohio dele-
gation—and let me personally introduce each and every one of them to you
because they're old and very dear friends of mine. They're strong supporters of
what all of you are interested in. Would you please stand up and remain stand-
ing while I introduce the others-Sam Devine, Bill Harsha, Chuck Mosher,
Bud Brown, Chalmers Wylie, Tennyson Guyer, and Tom Kindness.
They're great people; they've been invaluable in their aid and assistance to
me, and I thank each and every one of them. Of course, we have on the plat-
form here a man who spoke from the heart to you just a few moments ago
and who has been a tremendous asset to me as a member of my Cabinet, Earl
Butz. Earl, come on, get up again.
Then it's great to be in the city of Columbus. And Tom Moody, it's nice to
1737
