May 12
[461]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
The first one is, how can we best increase our supply of energy to lessen
our dependence on foreign oil?
The President. In the first place, we have to free the energy-producing por-
tions of our economy from the kind of regulation and control that has been
imposed on it for a number of years.
In January, a year ago, I recommended the deregulation of all new natural
gas. Unfortunately, the Congress has not done that although the Senate did
pass an acceptable bill. We have to deregulate the exploration and development
of crude oil in this country. We have on the statute books a law that will permit
us to deregulate that industry domestically over a period of 40 months. It was
not the legislation I wanted, but it is the best we could get.
We have to make some realistic appraisals and adjustments in how we use
our coal more effectively and more efficiently. We have 300 years-they tell
me—supply of coal. We've got to increase it from 600 million tons to 1,200 mil-
lion tons by 1985. We have to spend research and development money on solar
energy, on geothermal energy, and some of the other exotic fuels. And I am
glad to report to you that in these areas of research and development in the
budget that I submitted for the next fiscal year, we increased the R & D money
by over 35 percent.
So, we have to have a broad approach because every passing day our de-
pendence on foreign oil becomes more acute. In 1973, it was 31 or 32 percent.
Today, 40 percent of the oil we use in this country comes from foreign sources,
and it is going to get worse unless we do something along the lines that I have
recommended.
RUBBER WORKERS STRIKE
GOVERNOR MILLIKEN. Here is a question, I think, of particular interest to us
in Michigan.
Will you invoke Taft-Hartley if the rubber strike shuts down one or more
auto manufacturers for 1 week?
THE PRESIDENT. The Taft-Hartley Act I support and, I might say paren-
thetically, I am completely opposed to the repeal of section 14(b), but Taft-
Hartley is a legislative tool that is available. I do not think that at this stage
the President of the United States should commit himself to what we might
do if something happens.
The rubber strike which has now gone on for what-3 weeks-they tell
me there is roughly 3 weeks more, or thereabouts, of tires available for the
1541
