June 2
[548]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
proclamation as King of Spain-as a proof of our
personal interest and a confirmation of the affection
and friendship that the Spanish people feel toward
the United States of America.
It is, for the Queen and myself, very gratifying
that this visit should coincide with the celebration
of the Bicentennial of the independence of the
United States. It rounds off, so to speak, the part
that Spain has wished to play in the ceremonies
of this commemoration which will enable the
American people to assess the importance of the
assistance that Spain gave to their country's strug-
gle for independence and will make them show,
I hope, an even greater interest in the history and
in the present of Spain.
Our two countries are bound by so many ties
that it may well be said that in a certain way your
history and geography have been, to a large ex-
tent, ours too. This explains the numerous invitations
which the Queen and I have received as a result of
our visit to the United States and which, unfortu-
nately, it has been physically impossible for us to
accept. Allow me, Mr. President, to take advantage
of this opportunity to place on record our grati-
tude for these kind invitations.
The time of transition that the world is living
through demands clarity of thought, a firm pur-
pose, a resolute acknowledgement of the suprem-
acy of spiritual values, and a constant exercise of
the virtue of prudence, a virtue which is so par-
ticularly extolled in your Declaration of Inde-
pendence. But this objective could not be achieved
without the certainty of being able to rely, should
the need arise, on the many benefits derived from
all good friendships.
At this moment my greatest wish is that our visit
should contribute to reinforcing these bonds of
friendship between us for the good of our two
countries and all those who aspire to attain the
same ideals of faith, freedom, and justice.
Mr. President, once again receive our sincerest
thanks for your invitation.
548
Special Message to the Congress Transmitting
Recommendations To Extend Waiver Authority to Romania
Under the Trade Act of 1974. June 2, 1976
To the Congress of the United States:
In accordance with section 402(d)(1) of the Trade Act of 1974, I transmit
herewith my recommendation that the authority to waive subsections (a) and
(b) of section 402 be extended for a period of 12 months.
This recommendation sets forth the reasons for extending waiver authority,
and for my determination relating to continuation of the waiver applicable to
the Socialist Republic of Romania, as called for by subsections (d)(1)(B) and
(d)(1)(C) of section 402 of the Trade Act. I include, as part of this recommen-
dation, my determination that extension of the waiver authority, and continua-
tion of the waiver applicable to the Socialist Republic of Romania, will substan-
tially promote the objectives of section 402.
The White House,
June 2, 1976.
GERALD R. FORD
NOTE: The text of the recommendation is printed in the Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents
(vol. 12, p. 991).
1773
