[642]
July 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
of course, there would be the big flag to hang out on the front porch and the ice
cream freezer to turn and the first big spoonful that gave you a headache. Then
there were parades and bands and those long speeches-this won't be one.
[Laughter]
There would be a picnic and softball games, the endless wait until it got dark
enough for the roman candles-sparklers for the little ones, who really liked
the lightning bugs better. When it was all over, you went to bed happy because
you knew it would happen all over again the next Fourth of July.
Here we are on the eve of our 200th, the greatest Fourth of July any of us will
ever see. We are happy people because we are a free people, and while we have
our faults and our failures, tonight is not the time to parade them. Rather, let's
look to the third century as the century in which freedom finds fulfillment in
even greater creativity and individuality.
Tonight, we salute the pursuit of happiness as we listen to our exciting past in
song and in story. Two hundred years ago today, John Adams wrote his wonder-
ful wife, Abigail, that he expected the glorious anniversary of independence to
be observed down through the ages "with shows, games, sports, guns, bells, bon-
fires, and illuminations from one end of this continent to the other."
So, break out the flags, strike up the band, light up the skies; let the whole
wide world know that the United States of America is about to have another
happy birthday, going strong at 200, and in the words of the immortal Al Jolson,
"You ain't seen [heard] nothing yet."
Thank you very much.
Now Betty and I will return to our seats to join you in the enjoyment of this
Bicentennial celebration. But first, I have one very satisfying task to perform.
The next personality you will meet is a gentleman I have introduced on a num-
ber of occasions, and who has introduced me on a number of occasions. There is
no doubt in my mind that introducing him is a lot easier than following him.
[Laughter]
So, ladies and gentlemen, I present my very good and very dear friend, Bob
Hope.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8-12 p.m. in the
Concert Hall at the John F. Kennedy Center for
the Performing Arts. In his opening remarks, he
referred to J. Willard Marriott, Sr... chairman of
the American Historic and Cultural Society,
which sponsored the Honor America Program.
1962
