[406]
April 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
Now, let me take the alternative of what my opponent has said. He says that
in effect we should stop those negotiations. Let me be very candid and say that
if those negotiations were terminated, you would have a resumption of the
riots and the bloodshed, you would have the antagonism of every Latin
American, every South American country-25, including 309 million people
in that part of the hemisphere. You would undoubtedly, because of the actual
riots and bloodshed, have to send another 10,000 to 20,000 American GI's down
to defend the canal if they could, because it is a place-if you have been there
as I have been-which is not easily defendable. Guerrilla warfare would very
easily destroy the usability of that canal.
So, what we are trying to do, and Mr. Johnson tried to do, and Mr. Nixon
tried to do, and I am trying to do, is to make certain that we get a treaty that
gives us the rights for as long as that canal is economically viable. And we will
get that kind of canal right and it will be for at least 50 years, which is for the
economical usability of that canal, period.
TAX REDUCTION RECOMMENDATIONS
[3.] Q. Mr. President, I am also from Abilene Christian University.
Everyone here is concerned about taxes. Would you like to expand upon your
statement yesterday concerning a possible tax cut within the next 2 years?
THE PRESIDENT. I certainly would, but I would like to start with the message
that I sent to the Congress in January of this year, when I recommended to the
Congress that starting July 1 of this year we get an additional $10 billion tax
reduction, 75 percent of it going to individual taxpayers and 25 percent going
to business to provide jobs. And let me tell you what the main ingredient is of
the tax reduction that I have proposed for July 1.
Today, under existing law, a personal exemption for every taxpayer or every
dependent of a taxpayer is $750. I want the Congress to increase that personal
exemption from $750 to $1,000. What that will do is give to the great middle-
income taxpayers, who have gotten short shrift in recent years-it will give to
them the kind of tax relief that they badly need and really deserve.
The recommendations for additional tax reductions for business are aimed
at the following: To give to business an incentive to stimulate the moderniza-
tion, the expansion, the improvement of their facilities.
What does that mean? That means more jobs for Americans.
So, what we have is a tax bill to give more money back to the people so they
can spend it as they see fit and not as government dictates; and, number two,
an incentive for business so we will have more jobs in America. That is what I
1390
