[396]
April 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
of any country, including the United States-that, of course, is how we became
a country-and secondly, that under any and all circumstances this country
stands for the full protection of minority rights.
At the same time, the Secretary has clearly stated to all of Africa that the
United States does not believe that any foreign powers outside of Africa should
seek to dominate Africa. Africa should grow and prosper and strengthen itself
by its own efforts, with the broad help and assistance of a number of the more
developed nations of the world. So, the Secretary has carried out my directives,
and I think our relationship with the nations of Africa have been considerably
enhanced.
REPORTER. Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you all very, very much. It's nice to see you. It's great
to be back in Dallas.
NOTE: The exchange began at 7:09 p.m. at Love Field.
397
Remarks at a Rally in Dallas, Texas. April 29, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Ray Nasher, and thank you, Mrs. Nasher, my
good friend Senator John Tower, your fine mayor, Bob Folsom, “Miss Texas,"
Mary Ellen Richardson, ladies and gentlemen:
I'm honored and privileged to be here in the North Park Mall and to have
an opportunity to speak directly to so many of you from the great city of
Dallas.
But before we go any further, as a former football player a good many years
ago, I know how much a winning team depends on a great coach. And here in
Dallas, you have one of the greatest coaches in the history of football. You all
know who I'm talking about-Tom Landry of the Dallas Cowboys.
Yesterday, Tom Landry announced his support for my campaign. And all I
can say to Tom is, with his help and the help of many, many more concerned
Texans like him, we are going to win on Saturday, May 1. But we are not only
going to win on Saturday, May 1, here in Texas; we are going to win in Kansas
City; we are going to win November 2 and go right on winning for America
for the next century.
When I became President about 21 months ago, our great country, the United
States of America, was faced with some very serious concerns. Runaway infla-
tion and recession both threatened our economic strength and the stability of
1342
