[383]
April 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
delays of that kind. If you're talking about 235 projects, 236 projects, section
8 projects, if there is that kind of delay, it is inexcusable. Now, if you are talk-
ing about something that I am not familiar with, if you'll give me the dope and
the data, we'll find out why it takes that long.
Q. Every one you just mentioned, sir, are the ones involved. You hit them
categorically, and I thank you.
The President. Well, if they take that long it's wrong, and I see no justi-
fication for that kind of bureaucratic delay.
I do want to point out we have made significant headway in another area
that to a degree affects the building industry. When we recommended and Con-
gress passed and I signed the Community Development Act of 1974, the effort
then was to get away from seven categorical grant programs-urban develop-
ment, et cetera—and we consolidated them all into one block grant so that
cities can get their money and use it as they see fit rather than having seven
different bureauratic agencies telling them how to do it.
Let me give you some statistics that show how, by that new legislation, the
process of handling applications has improved. Under the old program of
seven categorical grant programs, it took 2 years to process an application.
Now it takes 2 months. What used to take, as I recall, 10 applications of some
4,000 pages, we now have 1 application of 50 pages. And in every instance,
the city or the community can get its funds much more rapidly, have much
more flexibility, and it gets the building industry in those communities mov-
ing a lot quicker.
Now, we will try to do the best in 235, 236, section 8. I can promise you I
will find out from the Secretary when I get back.
Q. Thank you, Mr. President. Some of us don't have a whole lot of hair to
spare, sir. [Laughter]
Q. Mr. President, as our concluding question, Mr. President, nearly all seg-
ments of the construction industry applauded your recent veto of common situs
picketing legislation. That legislation would have done a terrible disservice to
the entire country, as well as to the construction industry. We of the merit shop
admire and thank you for your veto. Would you again, Mr. President, veto
common situs picketing legislation if it were presented to you?
THE PRESIDENT. The answer is yes.
Let me thank you all again for the opportunity of being with you here in
Houston. It has been a privilege and a pleasure, and good luck, and God bless
1284
