May 13
[470]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
throughout the Nation. And as I said in my Small Business Week proclamation
[4429] earlier this year, small businesses are the cornerstone of the American
economy.
To ensure that small business in America survives and thrives as it has
in the past, I have proposed legislation to raise the estate tax exemption from
$60,000 to $150,000, to stretch out the payments at low-interest rates over a 25-
year period, and exempt from taxation the transfer of your businesses between
husbands and wives.
I know that we can work together, you as well as myself, to convince the
Congress of the absolute need and necessity of affirmative action on that pro-
posal by me in 1976. Let's get the job done.
In addition, to obtain the capital that you need to grow and create the
jobs in America, I have also proposed a retention of the $50,000 corporate sur-
tax exemption, a 2-percent reduction in the maximum corporate income tax
rate, and a 33-percent increase in the Small Business Administrator's major loan
guarantee program. As Mitch Kobelinski and others reported earlier this week,
the administration on its own has developed, number one, a vigorous new small
business export program; number two, a national secondary market program
to tap new private sources of funds for small businesses, and a new partner-
ship of government, small business, and education to do for small business what
a similar partnership has done for agriculture in the last 100 years.
And if I might say so to all of you, I am deeply grateful for the hard work, the
sacrifice, the courage, the ingenuity, and the economic strength that each and
every one of you and all of you collectively have contributed to America. And
this Bicentennial salute to the small business men and women of America is
certainly well-deserved and highly appreciated by all America.
As we enter our third century, America is faced with a very fundamental
choice of what kind of government and how much government we want. Like
the patriots of 1776, we are concerned about the power of government, the power
to tax, the power to spend, and the power to regulate. For the past 40 years,
since the darkest days of the Great Depression, those powers have been signifi-
cantly on the increase. When economic or social problems have arisen, more and
more people have turned more and more habitually to government for quick
solutions.
This growing reliance has, in turn, given the Federal Government more and
more power to dictate how each of us must live and how each of us must work.
In our haste to say the government ought to do something about that, we have
allowed an enormous Federal bureaucracy to be established.
1559
