[331]
April 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we are looking at a whole number of Vice-Presidential
potential candidates. We have some outstanding Members of the United States
Senate, the House of Representatives, Governors, former Governors, people in
public as well as private life. But I think it is premature to start winnowing
down the field. We expect to win in Kansas City. I am certain we will, but until
we get closer to it, I think, it is premature to make any decision.
Q. On this defense budget, I read the paper this morning about your budget,
especially the arms authorization. What is this going to have to do with our
taxes in the future?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the House Armed Services Committee added, pri-
marily, some extra money for some naval shipbuilding. We are delighted to
have the Congress take such action, and I was pleased that the House as a whole
seemed to reaffirm what the House Committee on Armed Services recom-
mended. We are going to have some specific recommendations for perhaps some
extra shipbuilding in a month or two, but in the meantime I certainly don't ob-
ject if the Congress wants to do as they have done in this case.
Thank you all very much. It's great to see you, been a pleasure to be here.
NOTE: The exchange began at 7:14 p.m. at the Amarillo Air Terminal.
332
Remarks at the Northern Texas Panhandle Lion's Club
Dinner in Amarillo. April 10, 1976
IN THE many years that I was privileged to represent my congressional district
in the State of Michigan, one of the favorite annual groups that I had the op-
portunity to discuss the difficulties, the problems, the prospects, the optimism
about Washington was the Grand Rapids Lion's Club. After I had done that for
25 years they finally made me an honorary member. [Laughter]
I have two brothers who are members of the Lion's Club, so the Ford family
feels pretty close to all of you. I know what the Lion's International stands for.
You have great objectives. You have wonderful programs and policies at the
local level. I can tell you from personal experience—and I have spoken to many
Lion's Clubs—you have outstanding people who believe right, do things right,
and get things done.
So, let me just say to you it has been a great day and a half to be in the State of
Texas. We started in San Antonio, went to Dallas and to El Paso, we are here in
1098
