April 29
[392]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
chronic complainers, Sam Rayburn used to love to recall what his father once
told him, and let me quote: “Any donkey can kick a barn down, but it takes
an awfully good carpenter to build one up."
Now, as far as the national security, the policies involving our security, are
concerned, I am convinced that the American people would rather have a
President who is constructively seeking to build the foundations of lasting
security than someone who spends most of his time trying to kick them down.
I invite you all, then, to join me in a journey to a challenging future, to walk
with me on the path of peace and on the road to lasting prosperity, for there lies
the honor and the achievement and the happiness for the United States of
America and for the 215 million Americans that I am honored to serve and
proud to lead.
It has been a great privilege to say a few words, and now I will be delighted
to answer your questions.
Thank you very much.
QUESTIONS
[1.] Q. Mr. President, hi.
THE ECONOMY
THE PRESIDENT. Hi. How are you?
Q. I'm fine, thank you.
I know that getting inflation under control is one of your important issues,
and I'm very firmly behind that. But you have also said that unemployment is
going to have to increase in order to accomplish this goal. And this is rather
frightening to me because I'm graduating and going to be out trying to find a
job to support myself. What I would like to know is to what degree do you think
unemployment is going to have to go in order to get inflation under control?
THE PRESIDENT. First, let me set the record straight. I never said that we could
lick inflation by the process, for the need and necessity of increasing unemploy-
ment. What I said was that they are twin problems, and we can affirmatively
attack both of them. And in my judgment, we can affirmatively be successful in
winning against both of them.
Now, some of my critics, when I took some rather firm and tough action a
year ago in January, said, oh, President Ford is going to whip inflation, but he's
going to increase unemployment. Well, the facts are we have made substantial
progress against both of them. And let me cite some statistics.
First, inflation: When I became President in August of 1974, the rate of in-
1327
