May 25
[527]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
we have to enact accelerated depreciation allowances and other investment
tax credit and to retain the $50,000 corporate surtax exemption. I want the
American people to keep more of the money that they work so hard to earn. I
want them to spend it the way they want to spend it, at the shopping center, on
their children's education, for whatever they need, instead of paying more and
more for government programs that obviously we do not need.
As some of you know, I have vetoed some 49 bills sent to me by the Congress
in the last 21 or 22 months. Responsible Members of the Congress sustained 42
of those vetoes, and those vetoes, as sustained by the Congress, have saved the
American taxpayer $13 billion. That's a pretty good record, but as a postscript let
me say if the Congress keeps on sending me those budget-busting, big spend-
ing proposal, I'm prepared to use my veto again and again and again.
Now, if the Congress would act sensibly—and with all deference to my
former colleagues—that is asking an awful lot—[laughter]—they would enact
my tax cut proposals instead of thinking up new fantastic ways to spend your
money. We could create such a tremendous demand for goods and services
that many, many more Americans' jobs and lasting prosperity would be the in-
evitable result. We could also cut the rate of growth in Federal spending.
My budget for fiscal year 1977, which begins October 1 of this year, would
cut the rate of growth of Federal spending by 50 percent, approximately $28 bil-
lion, and set us on a course of a balanced budget by fiscal year 1979, plus an-
other reduction or cut in Federal income taxes.
I think that's a good economic package for America. I need your help in con-
trolling an irresponsible Congress so we can achieve that result. I've done battle
with inflation for far too long to let it get out of control again. When I took office
in August of 1974, the rate of inflation was 12 percent per annum or higher, the
highest rate in more than 50 years.
In the last 21 months, we have cut the rate of inflation by 50 percent or better,
and with a little more cooperation from the Congress, we can cut it even more.
The best news we have gotten in the first 4 months of 1976 is that the rate of
inflation on an annual basis is 3 percent or less, and if you take 12 percent, as it
was 21 months ago, and what the rate of inflation was for the first quarter of this
year, we have made a 75-percent reduction in the rate of inflation. I think that's
a darned good record.
The real progress against inflation is one of the most encouraging of all of the
recovery statistics because it means the strong economic recovery we are ex-
periencing across this country will not go bust next year. But the most important
1723
