June 7
[578]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
in the future because we have the resolve, the military capability, and the skill
to do so. I commit myself to that. And let me add, I think it is important for all
of you to remember that there is not a single American boy today fighting or
dying on any foreign battlefield. That's the record of the Ford administration.
And I might say parenthetically, the Ford administration is not going to commit
any U.S. military personnel to Rhodesia or South Africa.
But now let me make this comment: Tommorrow you may well be making
the decision who will be the Republican nominee for President of the United
States. If you want a Republican candidate to win, you should vote for Jerry
Ford. He can win in 1976. And if you want a candidate at the top of the ticket
to help elect Bob Taft-which is important—a candidate who will help to
elect Bud Brown and the rest of the State legislative and local ticket, you vote
tomorrow for Jerry Ford, who has done a good job. I want your vote. I
appreciate your help.
Thanks for being here.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:05 p.m. at the
Springfield Art Center. In his opening remarks, he
referred to Representative Clarence J. (Bud) Brown,
Gov. James A. Rhodes of Ohio, Senator Robert Taft,
Jr., and Mayor Roger Baker of Springfield.
Prior to the President's remarks, Mayor Baker
presented the President with a key and a plaque
proclaiming Gerald R. Ford Day.
578
Remarks in Lima, Ohio. June 7, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Kent, Governor Jim Rhodes, Senator Bob Taft,
Congressman Tenny Guyer, Congressman Bud Brown, distinguished guests,
all you wonderful people from Lima:
I love you. Thank you for coming out. I want to thank these wonderful bands,
and may I congratulate the Elida High School baseball team.
I could tell you a lot of good things about Bob Taft and Tenny Guyer, but one
thing you are very, very interested in-those two men have worked hard, and
they have given more and more and more of their time to get that tank plant
here in Lima. And I want to congratulate them.
Let me just speak for a few moments about peace, prosperity, and trust. When
I became President of the United States 22 months ago, in August of 1974, this
country was in a serious situation.
The American people, for reasons that we all know, had lost their confidence
and trust in the White House. One of the first jobs that I had to do was to re-
1841
