April 23
[362]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
increase defense—what we call "obligation authority"-$14 billion, an increased
spending by $9 billion.
Now, what that meant was, and let me go back one step further, about 10
years ago, when you take all of the expenditures of the Federal Government—
all of them, domestic and international-10 years ago the Federal Government
was spending on defense about 40 to 41 percent and on domestic programs
roughly 30 or 31 percent.
But in the span of 10 years, up until last year, the percentage that went to
domestic programs had gone from 30 or 31 percent up to 50 percent of the total
Federal expenditure, and the amount spent for the Army, Navy, Air Force, and
Marines went from 40 or 41 percent down to 24 percent. That is what was
happening, and, the two budgets that I recommended for the military turned
that trend. And I have recommended, as far back as January of 1975, the turn-
ing of the declining trend of defense expenditures and appropriations to turn
it up and to turn the domestic programs down. So, we have made some reduc-
tions in a number of domestic programs that I think could be reduced that could
not be justified. And what we have tried to do is to make available to the mili-
tary—this year they got an 11-percent increase in spending, a 6-percent increase
in real dollars, which is the biggest increase in defense spending in the last
10 years.
Thank you all very, very much.
[At this point, the President left the gymnasium and entered the cafeteria where he
continued the question-and-answer session with the overflow crowd.]
The President. Well, it has just been great to be in Peachtree High School.
I can't remember a more responsive audience, an audience that had better
questions, and I am deeply grateful that all of you came and were willing to
hear it over a PA system. I regret, of course, that all of you couldn't be where
you could have heard and seen at the same time, so I think in all equity maybe
we ought to let maybe two or four questions come from all of you.
FORMER PRESIDENT NIXON
[13.] Q. I wonder if you would be willing or able to confirm any of the
allegations by Bernstein and Woodward about the condition of your predeces-
sor in the last few weeks of his term in office?
THE PRESIDENT. The question is, can I confirm or deny any of the allega-
tions in the Woodward and Bernstein book concerning my predecessor.
The only things I can confirm or deny are my personal observations and, in
1205
