July 2
[639]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
dom. It is impervious to change because it states moral truths that are eternal.
The Constitution provides for its own changes having equal force with the
original articles. It began to change soon after it was ratified, when the Bill
of Rights was added. We have since amended it 16 times more, and before we
celebrate our 300th birthday, there will be more changes.
But the Declaration will be there, exactly as it was when the Continental
Congress adopted it—after eliminating and changing some of Jefferson's draft,
much to his annoyance. Jefferson's immortal words will remain, and they will
be preserved in human hearts even if this original parchment should fall victim
to time and fate.
Listen: "We hold these Truths to be self-evident, that all Men are created
equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights,
that among these are Life, Liberty, and the Pursuit of Happiness-That to secure
these Rights, Governments are instituted among Men, deriving their just Powers
from the Consent of the Governed. . . . '
The act of independence, the actual separation of colonies and Crown, took
place 200 years ago today, when the delegations of 12 colonies adopted Richard
Henry Lee's resolution of independence. The founders expected that July 2
would be celebrated as the national holiday of the newborn Republic, but they
took 2 more days to debate and to approve this declaration and announcement to
the world of what they had done and the reasons why.
The Declaration and other great documents of our heritage remind me of the
flying machines across the Mall in the new museum ¹ we opened yesterday. From
the Spirit of St. Louis to the lunar orbital capsules, we see vehicles that enabled
Americans to cross vast distances in space. In our archives and in our libraries,
we find documents to transport us across centuries in time-back to Mount Sinai
and the Sea of Galilee, to Runnymede, to the pitching cabin of the Mayflower,
and to sweltering Philadelphia in midsummer, 1776.
If we maneuver our time vehicle along to 1787, we see the chamber of Inde-
pendence Hall, where the Constitution is being drafted under the stern eye of
George Washington. Some other faces are familiar. Benjamin Franklin is there,
of course, and Roger Sherman of Connecticut. Thomas Jefferson has gone to
Paris. The quiet genius of this Convention is James Madison.
But Jefferson's principles are very much present. The Constitution, when it
is done, will translate the great ideals of the Declaration into a legal mechanism
1 The President was referring to the National Air and Space Museum, which is part of the
Smithsonian Institution. See Item 631.
1955
