April 10
[333]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
believed in our Government, and the net result is the skies are getting brighter,
everything that should be going up is going up, and everything that should be
going down is going down. Employment is going up; unemployment is going
down. The rate of inflation is going down, and the American people have con-
fidence again.
One survey after another in recent weeks indicates very clearly that the
American people have again the faith and the belief in our system, not only
economic system but our political system, and believe me this is what will make
America what our forefathers wanted it to be and what we can make it be.
But we have responsibilities around the world that fall on our shoulders. Not
that we necessarily in every instance want them, but fate has decreed that the
United States has a responsibility to work with our allies, to negotiate with our
adversaries, to help the less advantaged, to make this globe in which we live not
only a better place for us but a better place for all people.
And as we look around the globe today, I think we can say that despite a
problem here or a problem there, the world is getting a better place in which to
live. It may take longer, but we should never give up the ambition and the hope
and the aspiration for that.
Now, one quick comment or two about what I try to stand for. One prin-
ciple: I will never promise more than I can deliver, and we will deliver every-
thing that I promise.
There is one basic truth that I believe in. I think it cuts across all the rhetoric
that most people use. It is a basic truth that is so fundamenal, and I state it this
way: We should never forget that a government big enough to give us every-
thing we want is a government big enough to take from us everything we have.
Finally, I think as Americans we can stand tall and strong and say without
hesitation, qualification, or reservation, when we look at what we have gone
through for 200 years and what we have gone through for the last 20 months,
we can say individually and collectively, we are proud to be Americans and
we are proud of America.
The first question.
QUESTIONS
BETTY FORD
[1.] Q. Mr. President, I understand that Mrs. Ford has a CB radio, and I was
wondering what her handle is. [Laughter]
1101
