May 3
[418]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
accused him outwardly of distorting some of the figures. There was a time
when your campaign people were accusing Reagan of taking the campaign
to the point where it would be divisive for the Republican Party. Do you
worry that you are now taking the campaign to a point where it would hurt
the party's chances in November?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think so. But when accusations are made without
foundation or there is a distortion of statistics, I think it is my obligation to the
American people to tell the truth and to explain what the facts are in the total
context.
So, it has not been a personal attack. It has just been an attempt by me to
set the record straight, which is an obligation of the President of the United
States.
Q. Is it serious to accuse Mr. Reagan of being rash or distorting issues? Do
you worry about that hurting the Republican Party?
The President. I don't think the Republican voters, once they have heard
the facts, will think that what I am saying is divisive.
SECRETARY OF STATE KISSINGER
[15.] Q. Mr. President, one of the lessons being drawn from the Texas
results is that the voters there tend to believe what your opponent has been
saying about Secretary of State Kissinger and his view that second place is
satisfactory for America militarily.
What are you doing to determine if that is indeed the way they feel, and
what would Dr. Kissinger's position be if it is indeed an influencing factor?
THE PRESIDENT. Dr. Kissinger has always said to me that at any time that I
felt that his staying on as Secretary of State was a political liability, he would
be glad to step aside. That is a matter of public record. But again, if I might
refer to my good friend and, I think, outstanding statesman in the United States
Senate, Barry Goldwater, let me quote what Barry Goldwater said yesterday
about the Secretary of State.
Here is what he said on "Meet the Press": "I think the Secretary of State can
be said to be doing a good job." I respect Barry Goldwater, and it's my judg-
ment that the Secretary of State has done a good job, and I'm glad that Senator
Goldwater agrees with me.
Q. The question really is: Do the voters agree at this point?
THE PRESIDENT. I think they will. I think they do.
Q. How about tomorrow here in Indiana?
The President. Well, we will wait and see.
1441
