May 15
[485]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
the responsibilities of our third century not just for us, but more importantly
for our children and our children's children. It is our obligation. We will do it.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:33 p.m. in the
Archibald Room at the Galt House Hotel. In his
opening remarks, he referred to Gen. R. R. Van
Stockum, USAF (ret.), chairman of the 50th
annual dinner, and John Sherman Cooper, U.S.
Ambassador to the German Democratic Republic.
485
Remarks During a Michigan Whistlestop Tour. May 15, 1976
[1.] FLINT (9:18 a.m.)
Let me say at the outset how wonderful it is to be back in Michigan, our
home State. Betty and I are deeply grateful for this wonderful turnout in Flint.
We have been here many, many times, and we are deeply appreciative for your
reception and the help and assistance we have gotten from the people in the
Flint area over the years. And we are especially grateful for the tremendous
turnout.
I ask you to help us on Tuesday. We must win in Michigan, and Flint is very
important.
Let me tell you why I think we ought to win. If you will reflect a bit
back to August of 1974, when I took the oath of office as President of the United
States, this country was having many, many troubles. There was a loss of con-
fidence in the White House itself. We were on the brink of an economic reces-
sion, the worst in 40 years, and inflation was at 12 percent or higher. Our allies
around the world, because of our domestic problems, were uncertain as to
whether the United States had the will and the capability to meet its responsi-
bility of leadership in the free world. Our adversaries around the world were
uncertain as to whether we would continue one course of action or another.
In the last 21 months I think Jerry Ford has done a good job, and I want
your help. Of course, I have had a lot of help from First Mama, too. [Laugh-
ter] But let's take a look at where we are today.
In the first place, because of my openness, my candor, and my proven
integrity, the American people know that they have a reason to have the
feeling of confidence in the White House and the President of the United
States.
This administration has achieved the peace that we have today because of
our military capability and our diplomatic skill. And we have the capability,
1597
