April 30
[402]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
education is that of quality education. Now, the Federal Government is not the
principal source of funding for education in any one of the three areas. It
comes from local and State funding, primarily, but the Federal Government
can assist, and we have assisted very significantly.
Now, at the primary and secondary level, we have had some serious develop-
ments going back as a result of the Supreme Court decision in 1954-the
so-called Brown decision—where courts, in my opinion, have sought to apply
a remedy, in some cases arbitrarily, and forgetting what the aim and objective
is-quality education for all children-black, white, disadvantaged, and other.
Now, the Court had a tough job. I'm not discounting their difficulties,
because they also have to protect the constitutional rights of all Americans. But
as I look at some of these decisions around the country, I can't help but conclude
that in some decisions they have gone so far to force busing to achieve racial
balance as the way to achieve quality education, that it has torn up communities.
In other cases, wise judges have moved in cooperation with proper authorities,
and I think we have gotten the ability to achieve quality education, protecting
the constitutional rights of individuals. And the Federal Government can, in
those areas, help with money, with some other top advisers-for example, in
the Boston. situation-the Department of HEW, the Office of Education has
had five or six people up there trying to help resolve the problem in Boston.
It got out of hand, tragically. But that's another way the Federal Government
can participate in trying to give help and assistance, at least from the executive
department's point of view.
Could we take two more questions?
EDUCATIONAL EQUITY FOR WOMEN
[8.] Q. Well, mine is along the same lines, as far as discrimination in
schools, and that is, I believe there's a special project fact and part of that is the
women's educational equity program, and that your administration is recom-
mending somewhere under $6 million and the present level was $6.72 million
this past year, and that certain educational organizations are pushing for around
$15 million.
Now my question was, then, since those were the only programs to eliminate
sexism in higher education in schools for women, why, for cutting pennies to
balance the budget you would be pushing for a decrease in the amount of money
under that program?
THE PRESIDENT. You are a very ardent persuader. [Laughter] But you know
when a President has to sit there and listen to all of the requests for all of the
1377
