[319]
April 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
we have the best SAC [Strategic Air Command] crews to carry out the missions,
if they ever have to. So, no one should have any apprehension at all. The United
States is unsurpassed in military capability, period.
And one final word. When you take our unsurpassed military power and
capability, and add to it the industrial capacity of this country and the agricul-
tural productivity of this country and the scientific and technological superiority
that we have, and add to it our moral and spiritual and religious leadership that
this country has, the United States of America is number one. And we are going
to keep it there.
In conclusion, I thank John Tower, I thank Art, I thank all of you. And Betty
is going to be down here. She is going to try and express her appreciation by
being in Texas. And Jack is going to come down here, and maybe we can get
Susan and the others to come down here.
But we are all indebted to you. We are not going to promise anything that we
can't produce, and we are going to produce everything that we promise. That is
a good credo by which any President ought to live up to.
Can I add one postscript? You know I have had to deal, as John knows, with
a pretty tough Congress. They outnumber us better than two to one in both the
House and the Senate. Of course, we always have the quality—they can have the
quantity. Laughter]
But in the 19 months that I have been President, I vetoed as of yesterday 46
bills; 39 of those bills were sustained by the Congress. And as a result of my
vetoes and strong people like John Tower helping to sustain them, we saved the
taxpayers $13 billion. That ain't hay. So if anybody raises any questions-are we
conservative?-that is an alltime record for a President. And I would add a
second postscript: We are going to veto some more-veto, veto again and again
and again.
Thank you all very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:35 pm. in the
Rehearsal Hall at the San Antonio Civic Center. In
his opening remarks, he referred to Art Troilo, Ir
member of the Texas State Executiv Committre.
and Senator John G.- Tower, chairman of the Texas
President Ford Committee.
320
Exchange With Reporters on Arrival at Dallas, Texas.
April 9, 1976
GOOD AFTERNOON. It is nice to see all you good people from Dallas and
the surrounding area. Why don't you ask me some questions?
1038
