[497]
May 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
being carried out at the present time. Those surveys will be very helpful in
where we go and what we do.
On the other hand, the approach that we used in Michigan and the one we
used in Tennessee and Kentucky of peace and growing prosperity and trust will
undoubtedly be the thrust that we will use during the rest of our campaign.
Q. Mr. President, Mayor Wilson from San Diego says as far as he knows, you
only will campaign for about 2 full days in California. With that being Gov-
ernor Reagan's home State and a big State, how do you expect to win in a State
like that with campaigning only 2 days?
THE PRESIDENT. We will make another judgment after this trip, but we do
have to live within the expenditures of the law, and we are going to be very,
very certain that that is done. And any future plans after this weekend will have
to be coordinated with the availability of funds that are permitted under the
law. So, plus the trip, plus the analysis of our funding, we will make some deci-
sions later on.
Q. Mr. President, are you reserving the right to review any decision by Mr.
Levi on the Boston busing case?
The President. It is contemplated that some time this week, the Attorney
General will come in and see me and undoubtely tell me what his decision is.
I think that's a very appropriate thing for him to do and a proper role for me to
have. But he will make the decision.
Q. Mr. President, how do you respond to some critics who read into your
concern about a review of busing as an effort to play for votes in Kentucky where
busing is a major issue?
THE PRESIDENT. I think the fact that these news stories broke over the past
weekend and no decision having been made and the controversy of busing in
Detroit, is an indication that we in the administration made a major effort to
not interject busing into the primary situation. We didn't do any talking about
what the Attorney General has been studying and what the Secretary of HEW
has been working on.
This came from other sources than ourselves, and we were disturbed that the
stories did come out. We hope that we can keep this kind of a matter away from
the emotional involvement of this problem and the primary elections. We cer-
tainly had no part of that, none whatsoever.
Q. Mr. President, are you encouraged by the progress that your administra-
tion is making in the search that you ordered last fall for alternative ways to
achieve desegregation without forced busing? Are you optimistic? Are you en-
couraged that you will have found a solution?
1630
