May 15
[485]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
12 percent. We were on the brink of an economic recession, the worst in 40
years. People were concerned about where we were going in foreign policy.
Our allies were not certain as to the will and as to the direction of the United
States. Adversaries were concerned as well.
In the last 21 months we have turned things around. We have taken the
situation from a lack of trust and a lack of confidence, so the American people
today know they have a President who is frank, who is honest, who has integ-
rity, is forthright. And the net result is the people can say they have trust in
the White House, and they trust Jerry Ford.
We have made a lot of progress in trying to solve our economic problems. We
are not home yet, but let me just give you some indicators of the progress we
have made. Twelve percent or more inflation in 1974-the first 3 months of
1976, 3 percent—we have cut the rate of inflation by 75 percent, and that's a
darn good record.
Secondly, a year ago unemployment was almost 9 percent. We have turned
it around. In the last 12 months, we have added 3,300,000 more people with jobs
in America, and we are going to do better and better in the months ahead.
Just the month of April this year 710,000 more jobs in America, and you can
see, I can see, all Americans can see that everything that is supposed to be
going down is going down and everything that is supposed to be going up is
going up and the Ford administration, Jerry Ford, can take credit for this
progress.
One final comment: We've got trust, we're making things better here at
home, we're achieving the kind of economic progress that is necessary, and
we have got peace in America today. We have turned it around from a war
that we were in a year ago to peace today, and with the programs that we have of
military capability and diplomatic skill, we're going to keep the peace for the
next 4 years.
I had the privilege of representing some wonderful people just west of here
for almost 26 years. I always believe that you should promise everything you
can deliver and deliver everything that you promise, and I have done it as
your President for 21 months and will do that for 4 more years as well.
As I said at the beginning, Betty and I are just pleased to be back here in
Michigan with our hometown or home State folks, and we are counting on
you. It's a critical election on Tuesday, and let me say this: You won't let me
down, and Jerry Ford won't let you down for the next 4 years.
Thank you very, very much.
1601
