[654]
July 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
our joint dedication to freedom, to peace, democracy, and the well-being of our
people.
Your Majesty, America bids you, Prince Philip, and your party a most cordial
and heartfelt welcome.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:54 am. on the
South Lawn at the White House, where Queen
Elizabeth was given a formal welcome with full
military honors. The Quern responded as follows:
Mr. President, thank you for your welcome to us.
We are very pleased to be with you and the Ameri-
can people in this most important week of your Bi-
centennial Year.
Our countries have a great deal in common. The
carly British settlers created here a society that owes
much to its origins across the ocean. For nearly 170
years there was a formal constitutional link between
us. Your Declaration of Independence broke that
link, but it did not for long break our triendship.
John Adams, America's first Ambassador, said to
my ancestor, King George III, that it was his desire
to help with the restoration of "the old good nature
and the old good humor between our peoples." That
restoration has long been made, and the links of
language, tradition, and personal contact have main-
tained it.
Yesterday, Prince Philip and I were deeply moved
by the welcome we were given in Philadelphia.
And now we are looking forward to our time in
Washington and to our visits to New York and
Boston and to the home of Thomas Jefferson at
Monticello. We shall have visited the tour cities that
were at the center of events 200 years ago. We also
hope to see something of America of 1976 and of
the young people who will be taking this country
forward into its third century.
Mr. President, the British and Amerkan people
are as close today as two peoples have ever been We
see you as our strong and trusted friend, and we
believe that you, in turn, will find us as ready as
ever to bear our full share in defending the values
in which we both believe.
That is why we are so happy to be here
655
Veto of the Federal Fire Prevention and Control Bill.
July 7, 1976
To the House of Representatives:
I am returning, without my approval, H.R. 12567, a bill "to authorize appro-
priations for the Federal Fire Prevention and Control Act of 1974 and the Act of
March 3, 1901, for fiscal years 1977 and 1978, and for other purposes."
I am disapproving H.R. 12567 because it contains a provision that would se-
riously obstruct the exercise of the President's constitutional responsibilities over
Executive branch operations. Section 2 of the enrolled bill provides that Con-
gress may, by concurrent resolution, "veto" a plan to commit funds for construc-
tion of the National Academy for Fire Prevention and Control. This provision
extends to the Congress the power to prohibit specific transactions authorized by
law, without changing the law and without following the constitutional process
such a change would require. Moreover, it involves the Congress directly in the
performance of Executive functions in disregard of the fundamental principle of
separation of powers.
Provisions of this type have been appearing in an increasing number of bills
1984
