April 23
[362]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
think the détente, if you want to use it, or relaxation of tensions has made a lot of
progress, and we've got a lot of successes from it.
SOCIAL SECURITY PROGRAM
[3.] Q. Mr. President, I am from Cedar Grove High School. I've recently
become concerned over the high deductions made from paychecks for social
security purposes. Now, by the time that I reach retirement age I will have sup-
ported the retirement of several generations, but who will be supporting me?
Under current plans, won't it logically be bankrupt?
The President. The social security program, which became law in 1933 or
1934, as I recall, was initially predicated on the basis that it was not to be your
total retirement income but as a base or a floor. But in the ensuing years that
initial concept that was put forward by President Roosevelt has been forgotten
and, in most cases, today your social security benefits in effect are the total retire-
ment income of many, many people.
Now, the net result is that benefits have increased substantially and the conse-
quence is that the Social Security Trust Fund, which today is at a level of approxi-
mately $40 billion or $41 billion, is gradually being decreased. As a matter of
fact, in this 12-month period there will be a deficit between income and outgo of
$3 billion. In the next 12-month period the deficit will be $32 billion. In the
next 12-month period, the deficit will be $4 billion. So that $40 billion or $41
billion Social Security Trust Fund will be gone in a relatively short period of
time.
Now, what should we do about it? There are basically three alternatives:
Number one, we can increase the tax on both employer and employee. I think
this is the most straightforward, the most honest way to approach it, and I
recommended that to the Congress. And what does it amount to? For each
employee and employer—for each individual employee it means less than $49
per year. That's what the extra cost would be to make the Social Security Trust
Fund on an equitable and a sound basis.
The second alternative is to not add any additional taxes on the employer and
employee but rather we take it out of the general fund of the Federal Treasury.
Now, that is an easy thing to do but, of course, if we do that we have to borrow
the money in order to put it in the fund to pay the beneficiaries. And I think
that also destroys the concept that people, by their deductions are buying some-
thing that they would have when they retire. So, I disapprove very strongly of
utilizing general treasury funds to supplement the amounts paid by employer to
employee.
1197
