April 30
[411]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
U.S. policy of promoting the development of an open, nondiscriminatory and
fair world economic system which would, in turn, promote domestic growth
and full employment.
I have directed the Secretaries of Commerce and Labor to give expeditious
consideration to any petitions for adjustment assistance filed by firms producing
stainless steel flatware articles on which the USITC found injury, by communities
impacted by imports of such articles, and by their workers.
This determination is to be published in the FEDERAL Register.
GERALD R. FORD
NOTE: The President's memorandum is printed in the Federal Register of Tuesday, May 4, 1976 (41 FR
18403).
411
Message to the Congress Transmitting the First Report of the
United States Sinai Support Mission. April 30, 1976
To the Congress of the United States:
I am transmitting herewith the First Report of the United States Sinai Support
Mission. The Report describes the manner in which the Support Mission is
carrying out its mandate to implement the United States' responsibility for
the early warning system in the Sinai, as specified in the Basic Agreement
between Egypt and Israel of September 4, 1975, and the Annex to the Basic
Agreement. This Report is provided to the Congress in conformity with Public
Law 94-110 of October 13, 1975.
The Report includes an account of American participation in the establish-
ment of the Sinai early warning system during the first six months following
the enabling legislation, a report on the current status of the early warning
system, and a discussion of the actions now under way which will permit the
Sinai Support Mission to conclude its construction and installation phase by
early summer. When this preparatory period has been completed and we have
had an opportunity to observe the ongoing operations of the early warning
system, we will be better able to assess the feasibility of making technological
or other changes that could lead to a reduction in the number of American
civilians assigned.
As you know, the functions which the American volunteers are performing
were requested by the Governments of Egypt and Israel. We have accepted re-
sponsibility for these functions, with the concurrence of both Houses of the
1403
