April 30
[402]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
QUESTIONS
COMMUNIST PARTY IN WESTERN EUROPE
[1.] Q. Mr. President, in view of the fact that there seems to be increasing
influence of the Communist Party in a number of countries in Western Europe,
I'm curious what the policy of the United States would be assuming the
Communist Party came to power in a country like, for example, Italy, for
instance?
THE PRESIDENT. That's a very good question, and I am quite surprised we
have not had a question like that for some time.
I have said—I said it several months ago publicly, and when I met with the
heads of the NATO nations in Brussels in May of last year, I said directly to
them—that the United States could not understand or tolerate NATO being
undermined if the Communist Party took over any one of the NATO members.
It would totally change the thrust of what the NATO nations have been trying
to do in Western Europe since 1951 when, under the leadership of President
Eisenhower, we started NATO.
And of course, the Secretary of State has followed what I have said with his
warning to some of these nations that are being challenged today internally
by the Communist Party takeover in a proper, elective way.
But it is my view that it would totally change the thrust and the concept of
NATO, because it was organized for the purpose of meeting the challenge of
the Warsaw Pact nations in Western Europe, and to have a Communist govern-
ment in one of the 15 members of NATO just makes it a totally different
situation.
SOVIET INFLUENCE IN THE MIDDLE EAST
[2.] Q. Mr. President, do you see Russia's rule in the Middle East increasing?
THE PRESIDENT. Russia's rule where?
Q. In the Middle East.
THE PRESIDENT. No, I don't. As a matter of fact, as I said at the arena earlier,
the fact that Egypt, under President Sadat, has terminated all military arrange-
ments with the Soviet Union is a clear indication that the Soviet Union has lost
ground rather than gained ground in the Middle East.
Egypt is the largest Arab nation, has the most people—I think it's 50 million—
it has more territory. And to have Egypt decide on its own that it ought to
terminate military arrangements with the Soviet Union and actually force their
navy ships to leave the port of Alexandria, where they have had sanction for
1373
