June 17
[602]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
that the Congress has avoided its responsibility to provide a means of paying
for the full cost of the system.
If we are successfully to preserve the financial integrity of the social security
system, we need prompt action on both of my proposals. I strongly urge the
Congress to move immediately and without further delay to enact both of
them into law.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:24 a.m. in the Oval Office at the White House.
602
Special Message to the Congress Transmitting Proposed Social
Security Benefit Indexing Legislation. June 17, 1976
To the Congress of the United States:
I am today submitting to the Congress a legislative proposal that will correct
a serious flaw in the Social Security system. This proposal is one of three compo-
nents of my 1977 budget and legislative program intended to insure a secure
and viable Social Security system. My strong personal commitment to Social
Security embraces both a genuine concern for the 32 million persons who
currently depend on Social Security benefits for income, and an unyielding
dedication to protect the financial integrity of the system for the millions of
workers who will depend on it in the future.
My program to insure the integrity of the Social Security system, as outlined
in January of this year, includes:
-First, a full cost-of-living increase for all beneficiaries, scheduled to take
effect in checks sent out in July of this year.
—Second, an increase in Social Security payroll contributions by three-tenths
of one percent for both employees and employers. This increase would remedy
the immediate, short-term financing problem facing Social Security. It would
stop the drain on the trust funds—which are now expected to pay out about $4
billion more in benefits each year than they take in. This correction would cost
no employee more than $1 per week in additional contributions.
—Third, legislation to correct a serious flaw in the Social Security benefit
structure which, if left unchanged, would undermine the principles of Social
Security and create severe long-range financial pressures on the system. My
proposal would eliminate this flaw and be a major step towards resolving the
long-range financial problem. It would help stabilize the system and permit
1889
