April 30
[401]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
defense policy, where this administration has put together a record of achieve-
ment that all Americans can view with pride and with confidence.
Today America is at peace. No American boys are in combat anywhere in
the world, and I intend to keep it that way in the future.
We are meeting the active duty manpower requirements of the Joint Chiefs
of Staff through an all-volunteer recruiting program without a draft.
Throughout my 27 years in public life, I have worked for, voted for the
strongest possible military strength for America, and let me, if I might, give
you some background.
Sometimes it is helpful to know whether a person has some experience,
some know-how, some knowledge in a matter which he is talking about. Back
in 1953 I was made a member of what we in the House of Representatives call
the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee. It happens to be the subcommittee
that is chaired at the present time, and has been for a good many years, by your
fine Congressman, George Mahon.
I served on that committee for 14 years. And as George may have told you,
from time to time that committee takes the Defense Department budget from
the President of the United States, whomever it might be, and for 5 months a
year, 5 days a week, 5 hours a day analyzes the testimony of Secretaries of
Defense, Chairmen of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Secretaries of the Army, Navy,
Air Force, and Marines, admiral after admiral, general after general, civilian
in authority after another. And when we got through, after those long and
extensive hearings, it probably amounted to about 6 volumes of 400 pages of
testimony.
Every year we would make our recommendations to the House of Repre-
sentatives for whatever the programs, policies would be for our country's
national security. And then with the background of that information and that
experience and that know-how, I think it has been a great asset for me to be
able to sit down now as the Commander in Chief and discuss with the Chair-
men of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the Chief of Naval Operations, and the other
top people, not talk about them with no background but with an in-depth
information about what is right, what is wrong, and what we should do and
shouldn't do in national security matters.
But let me go on and say, since I became President, I recommended to the
Congress the two largest military budgets in our Nation's history. They were
needed to make certain that our military capabilities continue to be strong in
the years ahead, as they must be if we are to find the peace and security that
we all seek.
1365
