April 28
[384]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
you. And I appreciate your understanding and hope you can give me some
support.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:43 p.m. in the Im-
perial Ballroom Center at the Hyatt Regency Hotel.
The forum was sponsored by the Greater Houston
Builders Association, Associated Builders and Con-
tractors of Texas, and the Houston Contractors
Association.
John T. Williams, president of the Houston Con-
tractors Association introduced the President. In his
opening remarks, the President referred to Senator
John G. Tower, chairman of the Texas President
Ford Committee, James S. Norman, Jr., past presi-
dent, Greater Houston Builders Association, Thomas
Smith, local president, Associated Builders and Con-
tractors of Texas, and Vernon G. Bratten, Jr., presi-
dent, Greater Houston Builders Association.
384
Remarks at a President Ford Committee Reception
in Houston. April 28, 1976
I HAVE had an opportunity to meet a number of new friends and to make
some new acquaintances with a good many old friends. I do thank each and
every one of you for being here. I am very grateful, and I can assure you that
your support is very meaningful. And you can rest assured that Jerry Ford, as
President, won't let you down for the next 4 years.
Bob Mosbacher took over a tough job—just about the same adverse circum-
stances that I did in August of 1974. Bob has done a wonderful job in getting
things moving, and I thank you, Bob. We just don't have to worry about that
any more with Bob over there cracking the whip. But I appreciate all the help
you have given Bob to make his job a lot easier.
Let me take just a minute or two to tell you the basic philosophy that the
Ford administration espouses, believes in, and fights for. We believe that the
way to solve our economic problems—and a year ago, you know better than I,
they were tough. We were in the depths of the worst economic recession on
a nationwide basis that this country has had for 40 years. There was a lot of
pressure, particularly from the Congress, but from a number of elements in our
society, that we had to turn a handle, spend lots of Federal money, pass lots of
new laws, and that would be a quick fix that would solve all our problems.
Well, I decided then, that was not the answer. I believed all the 25-plus years
that I served in the Congress, that the best way to keep our country healthy, the
best way to preserve individual freedom for America, for 215 million Ameri-
cans, was to keep the Government as far away as possible from interfering with
1285
