April 28
[378]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
When they finally do their job, 90 days or more after they started it, then I
will make a decision. And it may be a veto and I may sign it, but I have to read
the fine print, just like everybody else ought to read the fine print.
LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF TERMS FOR MEMBERS OF CONGRESS
[9.] Q. Mr. President, it has recently been suggested to limit years of service
for Members of Congress. As President and as a former Congressman, how
do you feel about this proposal?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I have mixed emotions. I have seen some of the out-
standing Members of the Congress whose contribution increased substantially
every year that they served. And one of my dearest friends in the Congress is
one of your fellow Texans. I served with him on the Defense Appropriations
Subcommittee and on the Committee on Appropriations for 16 years. George
Mahon is one of the most capable, most qualified Members of the Congress
that I know, and he has been there 35 or 40 years.
On the other hand, I've seen some that have been there 2 years, and they
shouldn't have come in the first place. [Laughter]
So, I do have mixed feelings. When you come right down to it. I think we
ought to rely on the good judgment of the people in each congressional district
or the voters in each State for a Senator. If they like the job the Senator or the
Congressman has done, then they can keep sending him down. If they don't
like him, every 2 years in one case and every 6 years in the other, they can make
a change.
So, I really think it goes back to whether or not we have faith in the judg-
ment of the people in each district or in each State and, boy, I am all for their
judgment.
TEXAS PRIMARY ELECTION
[10.] Q. Mr. President, on what basis do you continue to refer to yourself
as the underdog in the Texas primary?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we have seen some polls when we started to actively
campaign in Texas that showed that my opponent has been here many, many
times and was making an impression with some of his statements. So, when
you look at the polls, you have to believe them to some extent.
But we have narrowed the gap, because I think we have a first-class chairman
of my committee in Senator John Tower. He's not only a great Senator but
he's a great chairman of my committee. And then we have a lot of volunteers,
and they seem to be coming into the various offices in greater numbers.
And naturally, I think my policy of prosperity at home—and it's really be-
1261
