June 6
[560]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
SEGREGATION IN PRIVATE SCHOOLS
[7.] MR. HERMAN. Before you change the subject, before you abandon
schools altogether, just to explore one further item-private schools, the private,
white academies that have been founded in parts of the South, you would
leave those as being perfectly legal?
THE PRESIDENT. That case is now before the Supreme Court. I think that the
individual ought to have a right to send his daughter or his son to a private
school if he is willing to pay, whatever the cost might be.
MR. HERMAN. But a segregated private school, if that should be his choice?
THE PRESIDENT. I think in a private school a person ought to have an individual
right.
MR. SCHIEFFER. What if those schools get some kind of Federal aid? Some of
them apparently do.
THE PRESIDENT. If they get Federal aid, Mr. Schieffer, that is a totally different
question, and I certainly would not, under circumstances, go along with
segregated schools, under no circumstances.
MR. HERMAN. That would include any kind of tax break, Federal tax break?
THE PRESIDENT. That is right.
MISS THOMAS. Would you approve of a private school turning someone away
on the basis of color?
THE PRESIDENT. Individuals have rights. I would hope they would not, but
individuals have a right where they are willing to make the choice themselves
and there are no taxpayer funds involved. Now, this is a matter before the courts
at the present time, and I think there will be a Supreme Court decision probably
in this term, or the next term certainly, but individuals have a right where there
are no Federal funds available. I would hope they would not.
And our own children have always gone to public schools, which were
integrated, and they have gone to private schools where they were integrated.
So, my own record is one of our children and my own belief in integration.
But, I think individuals do have some rights where they are willing to rake
the choice and pay the price.
THE MIDDLE EAST
[8.] MISS THOMAS. Are you working for a Middle East conference this year?
You said you were talking actively to the Israelis and other governments to
move off dead center, the status quo. Is there a possibility that there could be
a Geneva conference this year?
1799
