June 6
[565]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
candid, forthright administration, and I am proud of it. Despite a Democratic
Congress, we have turned the economy around so that everything that is sup-
posed to be going up is going up, and everything that is supposed to be going
down is going down. I'm proud of that too.
One other comment. Because we are strong militarily and because the Ameri-
can people have the will to carry out a foreign policy, we are at peace today. I
remind each and every one of you, there is not an American boy dying and
fighting on any foreign soil under that administration. Let me add, parentheti-
cally, the Ford administration isn't going to send ány American troops to
Rhodesia.
And now, let me thank you all. As I said at the outset, you are the heart and
the soul and the producers in the Republican Party. I have been the beneficiary
in a number of elections of what my friends at home, just like all of you, have
done on my behalf, and I could never thank them enough. But let me thank
all of you in advance of what you will do so we can win on Tuesday.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:27 p.m. at the Town and Campus Site.
565
Remarks at a Republican Party and President Ford Committee
Reception in West Orange, New Jersey. June 6, 1976
Thank you very much, Tommy, Millicent Fenwick and Matt Rinaldo and Dave
Norcross-here he is, right here—he's going to be your next Congressman from
this area-
AUDIENCE MEMBER. Senator.
THE PRESIDENT. Senator, I mean.
We've had a wonderful day in New Jersey. We arrived—a little rainy, but
the clouds cleared. We had great crowds. We had a wonderful reception in
Paterson.
We've come down here to West Orange, and I want to thank Bubby Koby¹
for making the place available and giving us such a wonderful reception. But
let me thank every one of you who I know are either committeemen or com-
mitteewomen. You are the heart and the soul of the Republican Party, and I
thank you for what you've done.
Now, we've got a big ballgame on Tuesday, and let me just lay out what
1
¹ Chester (Bubby) Koby, president of Town and Campus Corporation.
1811
