May 22
[505]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Q. Mr. President, I have resided in the city of Portland for more than 40
years. I'm a citizen of this great Nation, which I am very proud of, and I'm
honorary councilman for the Republic of Lebanon for the last 20 years. All my
life that I have been in this great Nation I have been commended for the beau-
tiful Lebanon culture and everything that goes with it.
I'm sure you are aware of it. It just breaks my heart. And I know every
American that I know in this city here, they call me, they see me, they see the
news in the paper and just don't know what to say to me. Now, what are we
doing in a country that has been pro-Western, pro-United States that would let
that country be destroyed little by little? I would appreciate a comment on that,
Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. You are exactly right. The tragedy in Lebanon is one of the
saddest situations that has taken place in my lifetime. Up until a year, year and
a half ago, Lebanon was the epitome of stability and strength. And it was the
most secure and prosperous nation in the Middle East by any standards.
You know as well, if not better than I, that there has been a very arbitrary
division between the Muslims and the Christians within their government. The
President had to be of one faith, and the Vice President had to be of another
faith.
The situation began to deteriorate, and then outside forces began to involve
themselves, and the net result was we have had about 20,000 killings. It is just
sad, but it got on a roller coaster. And about 6 weeks ago I sent one of our most
able, retired ambassadors, who just retired about a year ago-Dean Brown—over
there to see what we could do in an affirmative way to bring the Christians and
the Muslims together and to try to keep all outside forces away from this
situation.
He was there. He had contact with President Franjeh. He had contact with
all of the other elements, and we were successful in restraining the Syrians
from coming in in any major force. And if they had come in in a major force,
I'm certain that the Israelis would have countered with a major force of their
own.
So, we had to keep Syria out as best we could with any regular forces. We had
to keep Israel out because that would have ignited another Syrian-Israeli war.
We, I think, have gotten the best and seemingly the most permanent cease-fire.
The net result is that perhaps the newly elected President, Mr. Sarkis, will be
able to take over, and we hope that Mr. Jumblatt will support him. We hope
that the Syrians will give some support; the Israelis will stay out.
There have been some newspaper stories today which you may or may not
1653
