June 4
[556]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
So, whether it's on the unemployment or whether it is on the employment fig-
ures or on the battle against inflation, the administration's program is working.
Q. Does this good news economically translate into political capital for you—
say, California, Ohio, and New Jersey—or is it more apt to work in November
to your advantage?
THE PRESIDENT. I think it may have an impact on both. We certainly hope so,
because it proves what we said a year ago—that if we did what we have been
doing and not what some of the prophets of doom and gloom told us to do, ob-
viously the record is good and it's going to get better.
Q. Are you concerned, sir, about the Field Poll which shows you 24 points
behind in California?
THE PRESIDENT. It doesn't seem to coincide with some of the information that
we have gotten from our telephone banks and information we have gotten from
others. I don't know when the Field Poll was taken, but I have talked to a few
people who have been manning phone banks in California, and other peo-
ple have reported to me that there seems to be a shift from the undecided-which
is a very large number in California—more to our side than to my opponent's.
So, although the Field Poll is not good news, we have other good news that I
think is very encouraging.
Thank you all very much. Have a good day.
REPORTER. Thank you, Mr. President.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:23 a.m. on the South Lawn at the White House.
556
Statement on the Observance of World Environment Day.
June 4, 1976
ON WORLD Environment Day, the people of the United States join other
peoples and governments of the world in reaffirming our concern for the pres-
ervation and enhancement of the global environment. This day, established 4
years ago at the United Nations Conference on the Human Environment in
Stockholm, Sweden, celebrates the principles adopted there.
This year we take special note of the second principle of that Conference,
which urges conservation of the natural resources of the Earth for the benefit
of present and future generations. We must seek with other peoples of the
world the best means for reaching a balance between the resources of nature
and the human population.
1787
