May 11
[452]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
This is an increase of approximately 11 percent.
Today, I sign into law the National Science and Technological [Technology]
Policy, Organization, and Priorities Act of 1976. In addition to establishing the
new office, the bill calls for an intensive study of the way we utilize science and
technology in the government and in the Nation. It helps to assure that we will
have the views of State and local governments, business, labor, and citizen groups
in a great effort.
I congratulate and thank the Members of the Congress on the fine work
represented by this legislation. It is a good example of an effective cooperation
between the Congress and the executive branch, and I am most grateful.
I am now very pleased to sign this bill into law.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:48 a.m. in the
East Garden at the White House.
As enacted, the bill (H.R. 10230) is Public Law
94-282 (90 Stat. 459).
452
Statement on Signing the National Science and Technology Policy,
Organization, and Priorities Act of 1976. May 11, 1976
TWO HUNDRED years ago, one of this Nation's Founding Fathers and a
man of great intellect―Thomas Jefferson-observed, "Knowledge is power;
knowledge is safety; knowledge is happiness."
Jefferson knew, as did the other great leaders who established this republic,
that the pursuit and wise application of new knowledge are essential to any
nation's progress. They encouraged exploration, new methods of agriculture,
the establishment of scientific societies and institutions of higher learning, and
protection and improvement of the Nation's health. They supported those who
sought to expand America's physical and intellectual frontiers-our explorers,
scientists, inventors, engineers, and teachers.
This strong emphasis on progress through knowledge has continued through-
out our history. It has been instrumental in helping develop the America we
know—its agriculture, industry, economy, health, national security, and many
of the amenities we enjoy. Science, engineering, and technology have combined
to become a basic underlying force in American life—a force that America has
shared with the world to the ultimate benefit of all mankind.
Now, as we enter our third century, science, engineering, and technology
are more important than ever in meeting the challenges and opportunities which
lie ahead for this Nation and the world.
1521
