May 24
[513]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
under our Constitution, the responsibility for dealing with them rests primarily
on local officials. The Federal Government, however, can serve as a model by
firmly and justly enforcing its own laws and by improving the quality of the
Federal criminal justice system.
We recall in this Bicentennial Year, that our Founding Fathers adhered to
the dictum of John Locke: "Where there is no law, there is no freedom.” The
overwhelming majority of Americans are law-abiding citizens. It is a hard core
of law-breakers who commit a very large proportion of all crime.
A recent study in one major metropolitan area recently showed that within 1
single year more than 200 burglaries, 60 rapes, and 14 murders were committed
by only 10 individuals.
A great many serious crimes are committed by repeaters. You know that prob-
ably better than I. Such criminals—duly tried and convicted-must be removed
from our society for a very definite and specific time. A law-abiding majority in
America has its rights, and those rights should be given full weight on the scales
of justice in America.
With very few exceptions, I strongly advocate mandatory minimum sen-
tences for individuals who commit crimes or offenses involving the use of a
dangerous weapon or who commit such grave offenses as aircraft hijacking,
kidnaping, and dealing in hard drugs, and for repeated offenders who com-
mit Federal crimes that harm or endanger others.
The way to reduce criminal use of handguns is not to disarm law-abiding
citizens. I am totally opposed to the registration of guns or gunowners. The way
to reduce criminal use of handguns is to impose mandatory sentences for gun
crimes, to prohibit the manufacture and sale of Saturday night specials, and
to concentrate our resources for enforcement in high crime areas.
Last July, I recommended to the Congress, as my good friend Chuck Wiggins
knows, a bill to achieve these objectives, and I urge and strongly advocate action
by the Congress to act immediately and without harassing the lawful gun owner.
Another important cause of the violent crime that plagues Americans and
makes a major contributor to the soaring crime rate is drug abuse. The time
has come to step up our fight, sharpen the weapons in our arsenal, and launch
a new and a far more aggressive attack against this insidious enemy. The cost
of drug abuse to this Nation is absolutely staggering.
Every year, more than 5,000 Americans die from direct drug-related causes.
Every year, more than 170,000 injuries can be directly traced to drugs. Every
year, the problem of drug abuse adds up to costs of something like $17 billion.
1677
