[505]
May 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
prehension of the cost. Every President has that grave responsibility to the peo-
ple that he serves.
I am proud of my leadership in the foreign policy of the United States. I
intend to go on trying to do what is right for America and what is right for all
mankind. We are at peace. No Americans are dying on any battlefield tonight.
There are no international wars, though there are many areas of tension and
serious danger.
We have suffered a few setbacks, tragic ones, and some disappointments in
the course we have taken since World War II, but we have not had World War
III. We have built a solid alliance of free peoples across the North Atlantic
We have made friends and partners of former foes in Europe as well as in Asia.
We are expanding trade and cooperation with the nations washed by the Paci
fic. We have strengthened our traditional ties with France, Canada, Mexico,
Central and South America. Over the past 30 years since we came home from
the Pacific and other theaters of war to make a better world, we have not blown
up civilization, and we have preserved our freedom.
There is more contact among peoples and more communications among gov-
ernments a greater sharing of ideas, knowledge, and cultural riches than ever
before in the history of the entire world. The levels of human help, learning,
and economic well-being are rising almost everywhere. Surely we must be
doing something right, and I intend to go on working for a better world.
Our adversaries are still determined to defeat us and bring all nations into con-
formity with their system in which almost any means are justified if they ad-
vance that ultimate victory. But we have no reason to fear their competition as
long as we remain strong and true to our principles, our system, which has
already proven its superiority in every way. As we must never lose our vigilance,
neither must we ever lose our vision.
Thank you very much.
I thank you very, very kindly, and I would now be glad to answer any ques-
tions from the audience for a few moments.
QUESTIONS
Q. Normalization of relations with the People's Republic of China was
begun by your predecessor, and it is as of yet incomplete. The exchange of
ambassadors will certainly create many adverse reactions in certain areas, par-
ticularly with Moscow and the Taipei Government in Nationalist China. What,
in the future, will your position be on this issue?
1650
