July 4
[643]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
643
Remarks in Valley Forge, Pennsylvania. July 4, 1976
Governor Shapp, Senator Scott, Senator Schweiker, Governor Ray, Congressman
Schulze, Lieutenant Governor Klein, Secretary Kleppe, Administrator Warner,
reverend clergy, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
Governor Shapp, I am deeply grateful for your very kind and generous re-
marks. The Sun always shines in Pennsylvania. [Laughter]
They came here in the snows of winter over a trail marked with the blood of
their rag-bound feet. The iron forge that gave this place its name had been de-
stroyed by the British when General Washington and his ragged Continental
Army encamped here—exhausted, outnumbered, and short of everything except
faith.
We gather here today, the 200th anniversary of our independence, to com-
memorate their sacrifices even before we celebrate the glorious Declaration.
Americans will remember the name of Valley Forge as long as the spirit of sac-
rifice lives within their hearts.
Here the vein of iron in our national character was forged. In the 18th century
the colonial American was far more free and far more prosperous than his
European cousin. Englishmen regarded us with some envy as appropriate sub-
jects to share their grinding tax burdens.
After Concord Bridge and Breed's Hill, the British generals were impressed
with our markmanship and fighting spirit, but they still dismissed Washington's
militiamen as a rabble of arms.
Many years later, when he was 91, a veteran of Concord was interviewed
and asked why he took up his rifle against his King. Did he feel intolerably
oppressed? “No, never paid a penny for one of them stamps, never drank any
tea, never heard of Locke. Only read the Bible and the Almanac."
Well, then, what did all the fighting mean? “Young man,” the aging revolu-
tionary said very firmly, "what we meant in going for those Redcoats was this:
We had always governed ourselves, and we always meant to. They didn't mean
that we should."
Without Jefferson's eloquence, those are the words of the American people's
Declaration of Independence. That was the straight talk that brought some
11,000 ordinary Americans-farmers, workers, tradesmen, and shopkeepers—
into this valley of sacrifice in the bitter winter of 1777. Uncounted hundreds
were never to leave.
1963
