May 5
[431]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
standards developed. It is up to you and your husbands to see that America's
children are raised in an atmosphere of morality as well as love.
It is up to you to see your children take joy in living and develop strength
and self-confidence. It is up to you to see that the next generation of all Ameri-
cans will carry with them throughout their lives the values that have made
America a great, free nation. Mothers and fathers establish within their own
homes the duties of their children, and they help their children to recognize
the obligations that come with being a responsible citizen.
In this Bicentennial Year, all Americans must rededicate themselves to the
values on which this country was founded: that all men are created equal, that
they are endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights, and that
among these rights are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.
You give your children life to teach your children the meaning of liberty,
its duties as well as its privileges, and you put them on the path to finding
their own personal happiness. This combination of responsibilities is what
makes motherhood a career in itself, a strenuous, rewarding job.
But as millions of Americans demonstrate, American mothers prove every
day the career of raising a family need not exclude other careers. Today,
mothers are more likely to be working than ever before-five times as likely
as 1940. More than half of all mothers with school-age children were in the
labor force last year, a higher rate than for women without children. But
whether or not they work outside their homes, America's mothers make count-
less contributions to their families, to their communities, and to their Nation.
Tonight, the American Mothers Committee honors that contribution and
chooses one American mother who embodies the best in all American mothers.
It was John Quincy Adams who said, “All that I am, my mother made me;”
that thought was repeated by Abraham Lincoln, Ralph Waldo Emerson, and
many others. And as Mother's Day this Sunday draws near, it is a thought
that should be in the hearts of millions of Americans. I know it will be in mine
and in yours.
On behalf of your children, your families, and your Nation, I thank you.
And now, the national president of the American Mother's Committee will
announce the name of the 1976 National American Mother.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:25 p.m. in the
Ballroom at the Shoreham Americana Hotel. In his
opening remarks, he referred to Mary Filser Lohr,
national president of the committee, Representative
Lindy (Mrs. Hale) Boggs of Louisiana, Mayor
Walter E. Washington of the District of Columbia,
and Phyllis Marriott, chairperson of the committee
for Washington, D.C.
Maxine Carnett Grindstaff of New Mexico was
named as the 1976 National American Mother.
1475
