April 28
[378]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
JUNIOR COLLEGES
[2.] Q. Mr. President, we are so proud of Tyler Junior College and its role
in education, and we're so honored that you chose to come here.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you.
Q. I'd like for you to comment about your thoughts about the place of the
junior college in America today.
THE PRESIDENT. I have had a lot of experience, practical experience with
junior colleges because, as I am sure Dr. Jenkins knows, the Grand Rapids
Junior College was one of the first that was founded, in my hometown, back in
about 1912 or 1913. And it is a fine junior college. So, I know the benefits not
only now, but over the years. And this was particularly true during the depres-
sion, when many young people couldn't go to a 4-year school—they had to
stay home and live with their parents and go to a junior college.
Now, in the Congress of the United States-about 10 years ago, the Congress
approved and I supported the effort of the Federal Government to provide aid
and assistance, financial aid and assistance, to what on a national level has been
called community colleges and junior colleges, as I understand it, which are
a part of that overall complex.
I believe very strongly that the community college, the junior college, has
a very significant and vital impact on our educational process and I fully
support them.
EQUIPMENT FOR ARMED FORCES RESERVES
[3.] Q. Mr. President, as a member of the Reserves of our Armed Forces, I
have noted a continuing shortage of military hardware. If we are to maintain
an adequate reserve force we must have the equipment to train with. Can any-
thing be done about these shortages?
The PRESIDENT. In the budget that I submitted for the next fiscal year, which
begins October 1, on the recommendations of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the
Secretary of Defense, we have added extra money to upgrade or modernize our
reserve forces, whether they are the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, or the
Marines, or the National Guard. There is no question about the fact that during
the Vietnam war and at the time of the Yom Kippur war in the Middle East,
that our reserve hardware was cut back or was not kept flowing at the right level
because we were diverting much of our mobilization reserve either to Vietnam
or we did, on some occasions, to the Middle East.
But we are at peace. We now have an obligation to upgrade and to modernize
the equipment that our reserve forces have. And in the budget for next fiscal
1257
