[352]
April 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
themselves, 25 percent of it for business so they could have more money to ex-
pand and improve their plant capacity, we would be further ahead today than
we are.
Now last January, of this year, I reiterated that the way to get a more healthy
economy, more quickly, is to have an additional tax reduction June 30 or July 1
of $10 billion and at the same time cut the rate of growth of Federal spending
which, for the last 10 years, has been 10 to 11 percent, to 5 and one-half percent.
The Congress so far has not acted favorably on either of those two proposals. I
can assure you that as we go down the remaining months that Congress is in
session, I am going to the American people, just like I am here in Butler Stadium,
to tell them the way to get a more healthy economy is to reduce taxes in the
Federal Government and to reduce Federal spending.
SECRETARY OF STATE KISSINGER
[2] Q. What are your plans for Secretary of State Kissinger in the event that
you are elected?
THE PRESIDENT. I said before and I am very pleased to reiterate it here tonight,
I have told Secretary Kissinger, I have told the press, I have told anybody who
has asked me that he can stay as Secretary of State as long as I am President of
the United States.
And let me tell you why. I am the first President, Democratic or Republican,
for a number of years, who has run for election and that person who occupies the
White House could say that the United States was at peace. What does this
mean? This means the foreign policy of this administration, as executed by
Secretary of State Kissinger, under my direction, is successful. And if you have
somebody on a ball team who is successful, you keep him, you don't get rid of
him. Our policies are right and good and successful, and as long as he wants
to stay, he will be Secretary of State under my administration.
GUN CONTROL
[3.] Q. About gun control, don't you think it is about time we got realistic
and banned the Saturday Night Special? And do you favor taking any
stronger measures in the way of gun control other than this?
THE PRESIDENT. Last year, I submitted to the Congress a comprehensive anti-
crime bill which included a number of provisions aimed at controlling the
illegal use of guns, and let me cite you what they were:
Number one, I proposed to the Congress that we make it a mandatory certain
penalty for anybody who commits a crime while in the possession of a firearm.
1152
