April 23
[356]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
in a balanced budget, but I believe very firmly that it should be balanced by
cutting the growth of Federal spending and not by increasing your taxes.
As a matter of fact, we cut your Federal taxes last year so you would have more
buying power, and I have proposed an additional tax cut as of July 1, 1976, this
year, and I hope the Congress does not deny that proposed tax cut to the Ameri-
can people.
We combined those tax proposals with strong efforts to hold down government
spending, and I say we have been reasonably successful despite the oppo-
sition and the problems in the United States Congress. Since I have been Presi-
dent, some 20 months, I have used my veto to save the taxpayers of this country
$13 billion in Federal spending. They say 13 is an unlucky number, but I would
say 13 billion is a pretty lucky number for you and all American taxpayers when
it is in your pockets instead of in the Federal Treasury.
We are going to keep down or keep holding down the cost of living by holding
down the cost of government. We are going to make certain that your tax dollars
work as hard for you as you did for them. And one thing I promise you, we are
going to keep slicing away at Federal paperwork and redtape.
My administration has made a good start. I have made a series of concrete,
constructive proposals to reform our so-called regulatory commissions, and I
have appointed your great Governor, Otis Bowen, to the Federal Paperwork
Commission. And I have directed all Federal agencies and all Federal depart-
ments to reduce the burden of paperwork they put on the backs of the American
people by at least 10 percent by June 30 of this year, and I expect prompt results,
and I think we will get it.
I don't believe America's Government should waste its people's time or
money, but neither should they be stingy with common sense. America needs a
government that protects its people's freedom, that respects their independence,
and that responds to their needs. That is the kind of a government I have been
working for for the last 20 months as your President. And with your support
on May 4 and next November, that is the kind of government we will have for
the next 4 years, as well.
Now I will be glad to answer the questions.
QUESTIONS
STATES RIGHTS
[1.] Q. Mr. President, I would like to know, if all Americans are considered
1173
