May 11
[453]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
453
Special Message to the Congress on U.S. Disaster Assistance to
Italy. May 11, 1976
To the Congress of the United States:
On May 6, an earthquake of great destructiveness hit the northeastern por-
tion of Italy. The Italian Government currently estimates that this disaster has
left over 800 persons dead, more than 2,300 injured, and from 40,000 to 60,000
people homeless.
In the message I sent to President Leone immediately following the news of
the earthquake, I expressed our sympathy for those who are suffering and indi-
cated that the United States stands ready to provide assistance. Initial U.S. aid,
under U.S. Ambassador John Volpe's direction, has been speedy and has
included:
-Emergency shelters, medical supplies and foodstuffs provided through the
Agency for International Development and the Department of Defense.
-Transportation and medical facilities, including medical evacuation heli-
copters from the Department of Defense.
-Reconstruction and heavy earth moving equipment from three of our bases
in Italy.
—Disaster relief specialists to assist Italian Government authorities in plan-
ming and implementing relief programs.
While this initial assistance has been helpful, more aid is needed to help the
survivors to rebuild their lives and to help the Italian nation recover from this
tragedy. Accordingly, I have asked the Congress to provide $25 million in
disaster relief as part of the Second Supplemental Appropriations Bill for FY
1976.
At the same time, at my request, Vice President Rockefeller will visit Italy
this week to receive a firsthand report on the impact of the earthquake and on
the ways in which the United States can best be of assistance. He will be ac-
companied by my Special Coordinator for International Disaster Assistance—
AID Administrator Daniel Parker-who has been instructed to review the situa-
tion in the fullest possible detail. Based on the firsthand assessment resulting
from this mission, I will immediately inform the Congress should there be
further steps required to permit the United States to assist as fully and effectively
as possible.
In the US-Italian Joint Statement of 1974, President Leone and I took note
1523
