May 27
[538]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
about $1 billion worth of business a year and employs about a quarter of a
million people in your various plants and facilities. That has a very significant
impact on our export capability.
During my travels around the country, before I started flying in Air Force
One, I flew with a good share of the 750,000 private pilots in the country-
[laughter]—and probably flew in a good share of the 150,000 aircraft. I know
I have been in most of the airports of the country as a result of the general
aviation capabilities.
So, I am fully cognizant of not only what you do from the point of view
of exports but also of business and jobs. I think most of you recognize that
we have made a very determined effort across the board to get rid of some of
the onerous, nonproductive rules and regulations that have plagued not only
your business, but plagued most of industry.
So, when the Department of Commerce got into the problems of your export
business, they found, as I understand it, that about 4,000 licenses a year were
required for the export business in which you participated. It seemed to Com-
merce totally unnecessary under the practical circumstances, and it has now
reduced the potential from some 4,000 down to, I think it is, 12 to 15 per year.
So that, I think, is some very, very significant progress.
I am not a technician, so rather than show my ignorance I would rather read
what I am told we are announcing today:
The elimination of all export license requirements for general aviation air-
craft utilizing standard communications equipment. This will apply to exports
to most nations. In addition, exporters of aircraft with sophisticated equipment
will no longer have to apply for individual license for each aircraft exported.
They will now be able to obtain a single distribution license allowing products
to be shipped freely to distributors in most nations.
I understand there is an announcement going out at 3:30 this afternoon or
thereabouts to this effect. So at least in one area, we have made some significant
progress in the elimination of unneeded, onerous, nonproductive rules and
regulations involving the Federal Government.
I wish, and I certainly hope, that other agencies of the Federal Government
will show the same kind of responsiveness.
Garner, I didn't see you sitting over there. [Laughter] I know Garner comes
from-what is that, Wichita?
bet.
CONGRESSMAN SHRIVER (Representative Garner E. Shriver of Kansas). You
THE PRESIDENT. I know when I was in the House of Representatives, he was
1759
