[506]
May 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
a crisis of confidence in our government, a crisis of spirit among our people.
America had been buffeted about for more than a decade with shocks to its
system that would have crippled a lesser country-political assassinations, a
long and frustrating war, riots in our streets and on our campuses, economic
distress, scandals at the highest level.
In the few hours before this responsibility was suddenly thrust upon me, I
was asked what verse I wanted the Bible open to when I took the oath of office.
I turned to the Bible, which had been given to me when I became Vice President
by my oldest son, Mike, who is a divinity student in Massachusetts. Ever since
I was a little boy I have used a very special verse in the Bible as a prayer. I am
sure that many of you are familiar with it. It comes from the Book of Proverbs
and it says, “Trust in the Lord with all thine heart; and lean not unto thine own
understanding. In all thy ways acknowledge Him, and He shall direct thy
paths."
That was the verse that I placed my hand upon when I took the oath of office,
administered to every President since George Washington. These words have
meant very much to me as I confronted the problems of this country.
When I received your invitation to address Warner Pacific, I welcomed the
opportunity to address an institution that encourages civic virtues based upon
the highest spiritual values.
I agree with Theodore Roosevelt's observation that "to educate a man in mind
and not in morals is to educate a menace to society." Too much of our education
today caters to the ego of the individual rather than the true growth of the
human personality. I am therefore very grateful that excellent institutions such
as Warner Pacific continue to inspire individual growth.*
Our national life has reached a point where we must recover transcendent
qualities of spirituality and morality. I know of no better way for Americans
to achieve personal and social regeneration. Franz Kafka wrote earlier in this
century that "the fathers of the church were not afraid to go out into the desert
because they had a richness in their hearts. But we, with richness all around us,
are afraid because the desert is in our hearts." As you today begin a new phase in
your lives, I count on you to discover a spiritual richness in your hearts. America
relies upon such an inward quest far more than an outward reach to the moon
or even to the stars.
We have come a long way in 200 years. Our first century was one in which we
perfected our free system of government. Our second century saw the growth
of the most productive economic system of all time, with wealth more widely
shared. What do I see for our third century? I see it as a century when the indi-
1656
