[612]
June 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
Council, the United States would hold the largest number of consumer
votes.
—A buffer stock consisting of at least 20,000 metric tons of tin or its equivalent
in money. Sales are made from the buffer stock as the tin price approaches
the agreed ceiling in an effort to defend the ceiling, while purchases are
made as the price approaches the agreed floor in order to defend the floor.
Producer members are required to make contributions to the buffer stock
proportional to their share of world production. Consumer members may
make such contributions on a voluntary basis and four-The United King-
dom, France, Belgium, and the Netherlands-have elected to do so. Both
during the course of the negotiations of the Fifth International Tin Agree-
ment and since that time, we have made clear that, should the United States
elect to join, we would not make a contribution to the buffer stock.
-Provision for the imposition of export controls on producers. Export con-
trols are usually imposed only after the buffer stock of tin metal has risen
to over 5,000 metric tons as a result of efforts to slow falling prices.
-A requirement that member governments consult with the International
Tin Council before making disposals from national stocks. For some years
we have consulted with the International Tin Council as a matter of rou-
tine before making disposals from our strategic stockpile. This require-
ment, therefore, would not constitute any change for us. We have made
clear, however, that we retain our right to make disposals from the stock-
pile as we see fit.
The United States did not join any of the first four International Tin Agree-
ments. However, we participated in the negotiation of all but the Second Inter-
national Tin Agreement, where we were an Observer. Following the comple-
tion of the negotiations for the Fifth International Tin Agreement in June, 1975,
it received careful interagency examination and evaluation. As a result of that
study, I have concluded that joining the Fifth International Tin Agreement
would:
-Have minimal impact on the American economy and carry with it no ad-
verse economic effects.
-Afford some protection to American industry and consumers by enabling
the United States to influence the decisions of an organization that seeks to
balance the international supply of tin with demand.
-Provide support for the concept of producer-consumer cooperation, and
accommodate the strong desire of both producer and consumer members
1906
