May 8
[444]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
levels. We are forging a new, more creative relationship with the developing
nations of the Southern Hemisphere. Because we are strong, because we are
prepared, because our will is undiminished and our purpose is clear, America
has gained a new respect. The free world once more looks to us for leadership
and for inspiration.
All of these changes are surface examples of a broader phenomenon that is
occurring in our society. I sense that the Nation is finally turning away from
an incessant preoccupation with its troubles, turning away from the inward-
looking pessimism to a great new spirit of optimism. A new buoyancy is emerg-
ing in America. For the first time in a long while, there is a growing faith in the
future in America. We see it in the way that consumers are now committing
more of their financial resources to new homes, new cars, and other major pur-
chases. We see it in what businesses are doing, once again beginning to invest in
new plants and new jobs. Not only are Americans investing in the future, but
foreigners are, too, as they decide to build new businesses, shopping centers, and
other large enterprises in our Nation.
We also see the growing confidence out across the great breadbasket of the
country, where farmers are expanding their crops and their production. We see
it on campuses, where students have put down their bricks and taken up their
books, and we see it especially in churches and in families, where there is a
deep yearning for spiritual fulfillment.
We have not yet overcome many of our most persistent problems. No one
should pretend that we have. We are still far below our potential as a people.
Unemployment, poverty, crime, and prejudice are too far widespread, but we
have moved beyond a time that could be characterized as the greening of
America. What we see today is the healing of America.
I would urge upon you young men and you young women entering a world
of swift, blinding change—you learn and understand what has happened in
these last few years. One day, when one or all of you are directing the affairs of
state or of nation, it may be very helpful to look backward to the 1970's and ask
how America pulled itself up by its bootstraps.
One answer I suggest is that even in its darkest hours the United States stayed
economically, materially, and morally strong. Even when the Nation was
afflicted with high inflation and high unemployment, we still had the most
dynamic, most productive economic system in the entire world. With less than
6 percent of world population, we continued to produce over a third of the
world's goods and services. Our standard of living by any standard is unmatched.
Our farmers continue to be the wonder of mankind. A single farmer today pro-
1507
