April 28
[378]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
OIL COMPANY DIVESTITURE
[6.] Q. Mr. President, Texas always has been recognized as one of the
greatest oil-producing States in America. I wonder if you would comment on
the big push in Congress and Washington nowadays of breaking up the major
oil companies and what effect this would have on our economy?
THE PRESIDENT. That's a very good question, and I'm delighted to answer it.
We have a number of major oil producers, refiners, retailers, et cetera. And
there is a bill in the United States Senate, sponsored by my fellow Michigander,
Senator Phil Hart, that wants to break up all major oil companies. It's called
the divestiture bill.
We have analyzed that bill and others, and we analyzed those proposals on
the basis of this criteria: Would those bills, if they became law, reduce the price
of gasoline or any other product of oil? Would they increase the availability of
domestic oil? Those are the two criteria. Would they reduce cost to the con-
sumer, and would they end up in getting more production so we would be less
dependent on foreign oil?
As we analyzed those bills that would break up our major oil companies
and analyzed them against those two criteria, we come to the conclusion that
divestiture as exemplified by that bill is wrong and, therefore, I am opposed to
it.
U.S. POLICY TOWARD AFRICA
[7.] Q. Mr. President, recently Dr. Kissinger announced a new 10-point
program dealing with our relations with Africa. Would you please elaborate
on this program and specifically what support we will give to the black na-
tionalists in their struggle for majority rule?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me summarize the objectives of our program in Africa.
Number one, we strongly believe today, as we have over the 200-year period of
our history, in self-determination by people of a country. That's how we got our
freedom-self-determination.
Number two, our policy would guarantee minority rights for any individu-
als in any of those countries in Africa.
Number three, our policy is one of keeping major powers out of Africa, and
major powers dominating any one country in Africa. We don't want to domi-
nate the economy, the political system in any one of those countries, and we don't
want any other nation to do it, including the Soviet Union. That's the basis of
our program.
Now, let me be very clear on the last part of the question that you asked. We
1259
