May 18
[495]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Once again I have a firsthand opportunity and a welcome opportunity, I might
say, to enjoy the incomparable hospitality and cuisine of the French people
as well as yourself. France's reputation, as we all know, for its hospitality is just
one of the many dimensions of French contributions to the world as a whole.
Frequent mention has been made during your visit, and appropriately so,
Mr. President, of France's role in our struggle in this country for our independ-
ence. Yet the French influence in America long preceded 1776. Much of the
New World was opened by French explorers such as Marquette and LaSalle.
Their influence is very obvious, very apparent in the names of American towns
and American cities, north and south, from Detroit to Joliet to New Orleans.
French influence is still very vivid in Louisiana, which you, Mr. President, will
visit later this week. Closer to home, we enjoy the superb artistry of L'Enfant
and design of our beautiful Capital City. It was he who selected the site for the
Capitol Building and for the White House itself, creating for the latter a beauti-
ful President's park where your helicopter landed just yesterday.
For this reason, I am pleased at the renewed interest on both sides that my
visit at your invitation has generated in our two countries. For the people of
France, it has been an occasion to discover the realities of present-day America
as they have been presented on this occasion by our combined information
services.
I would like to think that it has also helped the American people to become
better acquainted with the France of today, the France that is changing by virtue
of her younger outlook and her sense of effort.
For this reason, I also set great value-as you know you do, too, Mr. Presi-
dent on the cooperation that we have decided to implement in an area that is
limited but full of human implications. I am referring to the war on cancer.
I shall follow its development personally.
French philosophers have profoundly influenced and inspired the nature of
our democracy and the spirit of our laws in America. Thanks in a very large
measure to the writings of Montesquieu and Rousseau, our nations share a heri-
tage of human values. These values are today the very basis of our philosophy,
of our freedom, our justice as well as our equality.
America remains greatly inspired by the wisdom and the vision of France in
the history of our great country. It is especially gratifying to celebrate the Bi-
centennial of our independence with the distinguished President of our country's
oldest friend and oldest ally. Ours is a partnership and an alliance unique in
world history, a relationship which each has extended the hand of friendship and
assistance to the other in the hour of maximum peril.
1625
