[598]
June 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
ally for many years to help Turkey meet its heavy NATO obligations. The
Article provides that during the first four years the Agreement remains in force,
the United States will furnish $1,000,000,000 in grants, credits and loan guaran-
ties, to be distributed equally over these four years in accordance with annual
plans to be developed by the Governments. It further provides that during the
first year of the defense support program, $75 million in grants will be made
available, with a total of not less than $200 million in grants to be provided over
the four-year life of the program. The Article also sets forth our preparedness to
make cash sales to Turkey of defense articles and services over the life of the
Agreement.
The related exchange of notes details defense articles we are prepared to sell
to the Republic of Turkey at prices consistent with U.S. law. It further provides
for Turkish access to the U.S. Defense Communications Satellite System, and
for bilateral consultations regarding cooperation in modernizing Turkish
defense communications.
The defense support specified in Article XIX and in the related exchange
of notes will be provided in accordance with contractual obligations existing
and to be entered into by the Governments, and with the general practices
applicable to all other recipient countries. The accompanying draft legislation
accordingly provides that the generally applicable provisions of our foreign
assistance and military sales Acts will govern this defense support, and that it
will be exempted from the provisions of section 620(x) of the Foreign Assistance
Act as amended. The draft legislation further provides that it fulfills the
requirements of section 36(b) of the Foreign Military Sales Act as amended
and section 7307 of Title 10 of the United States Code with respect to the transfer
of materiel pursuant to the related exchange of notes.
The Agreement will have a duration of four years, and will be extended
for subsequent four-year periods in the absence of notice of termination by one
of the parties. As the four-year defense support program comes to an end,
the Agreement provides for consultation on the development of a future
program as required in accordance with the respective legal procedures of the
two Governments. Article XXI stipulates the procedures under which the
Agreement can be terminated by either party, and provides for a one-year
period following termination during which the Agreement will be considered
to remain in force for the purposes of an orderly withdrawal.
This Agreement restores a bilateral relationship that has been important to
Western security for more than two decades. I believe it will promote U.S.
interests and objectives on the vital southeastern flank of NATO and provide
1884
