April 29
[392]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
But, to get down to the food problem on a worldwide basis, I concede that
it is a serious one, and that is why the United States in the current fiscal year is
making available, under what we call PL 480 [Food for Peace], about $1,300
million of rice, of corn, of wheat, and other agricultural commodities produced
in the United States.
In effect, we're giving them away because of our productivity and their lack
of knowhow, or their system, or whatever it is.
And another thing we can do aside from this annual contribution—and this
is about the 20th year of the PL 480 program—about 6 months ago I approved
a $200 million contribution to the International Food Commission. It is a pro-
gram that was established 3 or 4 years ago. A former president of Michigan
State University that I am sure Dr. McCall knows, John Hanna, was the head
of it. We are contributing $200 million as a fund to be utilized by these under-
developed countries that have the land but not the knowhow, so we can give to
them the expertise and the capabilities that we have developed in this country.
So, between an annual grant of $1.4 billion to the $200 million that we have
made available on my recommendation to give them a long-range capability,
I think the United States is meeting responsibly its responsibility in this area.
U.S.-SOVIET RELATIONS
[6.] Q. Mr. Ford, I thank you for this opportunity for me to ask you a ques-
tion that I have wanted to ask for several years now, and thought I never would
be afforded the opportunity. I came with a list of questions to ask you about
foreign policy in Vietnam and Panama, such as this. But, as I listened to “The
Star-Spangled Banner," I was reminded, as I always am, of a trip I took to
Moscow 2 years ago.
It was on this trip that I visited several Christian churches and talked with
people in the streets who were afraid to talk to me because they knew I was a
Christian. I sang “The Battle Hymn of the Republic" outside of Trinity Baptist
Church in Moscow, and as we were singing a truckload of Soviet troops pulled
around the corner and drove all the people in the church back in, just out of
sheer fear.
I wore a wristband around my wrist for 2 years in high school of a man named
Georgy Benz, who, when he was my age, was thrown in prison for conducting
Sunday school classes in his neighborhood and is still in prison today.
What I'd like to know is why you continue the policy of selling wheat to an
enemy which has constantly stood up against every Christian principle we have
ever held in our country, has suppressed every Christian person and every
1331
