[367]
April 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
but rather redouble our efforts at all levels to provide the leadership and resources
to reverse the trend.
At this time I will sign the two messages, to the House as well as to the Senate.
Not Th. President spoke at 10:15 am at a ceremony in the Oval Office at the White House
368
Special Message to the Congress on Drug Abuse.
April 27, 1976
To the Congress of the United States:
I address this message to the Congress on a matter which strikes at the very
heart of our national well-being-drug abuse.
The cost of drug abuse to this Nation is staggering. More than 5,000 Americans
die each year from the improper use of drugs. Law enforcement officials esti-
mate that as much as one half of all "street crime"-robberies, muggings, bur-
glaries—are committed by drug addicts to support their expensive and debili-
tating habits. In simple dollar terms, drug abuse costs us up to $17 billion a year.
But these statistics—ominous as they are-reflect only a part of the tragic toll
which drug abuse exacts. For every young person who dies of a drug overdose,
there are thousands who do not die but who are merely going through the
motions of living. They sit in classrooms without learning. They grow increas-
ingly isolated from family and friends. At a time when they should be pre-
paring for the future, they are "copping out" on the present.
The problem, moreover, is not limited to youth or to the disadvantaged. It
extends to citizens of all ages and all walks of life-from the housewife to the
college professor. The cumulative effect is to diminish the quality and vitality
of our community life; to weaken the fabric of our Nation.
When this problem exploded into the national consciousness in the late 1960's,
the response of the Federal Government was swift and vigorous, Federal spend-
ing on a comprehensive program to control drug abuse grew from less than
$100 million in 1969 to over three-quarters of a billion in 1974; specialized agen-
cies like the Drug Enforcement Administration and the National Institute on
Drug Abuse were created; and international diplomatic efforts to mobilize
the assistance of foreign governments in a world-wide attack on drug trafficking
were intensified.
With the help of State and local governments, community groups and our
international allies in the battle against narcotics, we were able to make im-
1218
