April 30
[402]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
it or not, it is immaterial. I think it would have been better to go much larger
on the BEOG's program and some minor reductions on the work-study program.
But Congress, unfortunately, on one hand is going to cut back my recommenda-
tion on BEOG and continue the work-study program at about the same level.
It's a matter of priorities and where our people thought we could put the most
money to the best advantage. But if they appropriate it, we will spend it, in this
case.
Q. Will you approve of the additional supplements to the 1976-1977 BEOG
programs that are in Congress right now?
The President. We just sent up a very complicated readjustment in those
four or five programs-BEOG, work-study, and there are several others-and
this was worked out with the leaders, I think, in the House and the Senate, who
have primary jurisdiction over that appropriation bill.
And quite frankly, if the one that I'm thinking of is the one you're thinking of,
yes, I will go along with it because it was worked out as a compromise between
what we proposed and what they wanted.
WATER IMPORTATION FOR LUBBOCK AREA
[5.] Q. President Ford, as you know, agriculture is the economic lifeline of
this area and, as you probably also know, the water table here is being rapidly
depleted.
What do you feel about water importation, and what are your ideas concern-
ing that?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I was talking to the editor of a local newspaper about
that flying up from Dallas today. And we discussed the fact that about 10 years
ago, the Corps of Engineers and the Bureau of Reclamation made a study as to
the division of water from the Mississippi into here and, at that time, that study
decided that on a cost-to-benefit ratio, it was not an economically feasible plan.
But it is a different situation today. For example, you can go back and
compare the price of grain, corn, any of the other agricultural commodities
10 years ago, and they were significantly lower than they are today. And the
problem has probably become more acute today with the all-out production
that we are now having in agriculture.
So, it's my feeling that we probably ought to update that study. There are
relevant facts that might make a change in whether or not such a project was
feasible, and I am going to look into it. I think it's something that we ought to
examine again, in light of present day circumstances.
Q. So you feel that plans will be made to try to update that survey?
1375
