[327]
April 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
In every one of these areas, the number one nation in the world is the United
States of America. We have every right and every reason to be confident and
optimistic about our future. Even as we enter our third century of independence,
I believe that the United States is in the springtime of its life. I am ready to
meet the great challenge of the future with you, to fill that future with new
achievement and a new life for the nation that we love so well.
That is my goal, and that is why I am asking you for your support on May 1,
November 2, and in the years to come.
Thank you. I will be very glad to answer your questions.
QUESTIONS
GRAIN INSPECTION LEGISLATION
[1] Q. Mr. President, I'm Dean Ray, I'm from Petulia, Texas. I'm legisla-
tive director of this association. I would like to ask the question that in view of
the fact the United States has one of the most efficient grain inspection systems
in the world that has worked well for over 50 years, one of the major concerns
of this convention has been the bills now pending in Congress that would
drastically change our inspection system.
If we can present sufficient information to you that most of the grain inspectors
are doing an honest job of discharging their duties, would you consider a veto
of the bills now pending in Congress and recommend to the Congress that they
pass legislation that would preserve the free enterprise system of grain inspection
with its good check-and-balance system of Federal supervision and grain grade
appeals?
The President. As I indicated during my prepared remarks, I am completely
and totally opposed to the Humphrey-Clark bill. If that comes down to the
Oval Office, the answer is categorically I will veto it. On the other hand, the
House Committee on Agriculture has its version, which is a different version
than the one that Secretary Butz presented to the Congress on my behalf.
Obviously, if the Congress was wise enough to support the bill that I recom-
mended, I would have to sign it. [Laughter] But, I am not optimistic that they
are that smart. [Laughter]
We will certainly listen to your recommendations if and when they get some-
thing down there.
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY
[2] Q. Mr. President, I'm Flacke Fisher from College Station, Texas. I
1082
