April 27
[373]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
THE PRESIDENT. Well, this is a long and controversial subject, but under the
recommendations that I made, I said there should be full funding of category A,
there should be a substantially reduced funding of category B, and no funding
for category C and D, as I recall.
Now, the Congress every year has disagreed with me, as they disagreed
with my predecessor and disagreed with President Johnson and disagreed
with every other President back to President Eisenhower. I understand your
situation, but I think you have to understand our problem.
The whole impacted aid program was initiated at the time of the Korean
war, where we went in-not we, but the Federal Government-went in and
took land, built a base—Army, Navy, Air Force, Marines—took away the tax-
ability of that land and at the same time put military personnel on that base
and those people had children and they had to have an education.
Now, category A, as you know, if full funding for all personnel who live on a
base and for their children.
Category B, as I recall, is where a person works on the base but lives off the
base and his children go to school in the local school system. Now, that situation
is quite different than the person, the military or civilian individual, who works
on the base because he doesn't pay any taxes. But a person who lives off the base,
owns his home or rents it-there is a local taxing capability for that home.
Now whether I like it or not, or whether my predecessors liked it or not, I
suspect that Congress will do what they've done in the past. They will probably
fully fund A and B, maybe C—but let me tell you how bad it has gotten. A is
all right, we're fully for that. B you can argue a bit, but they added a new one a
little while ago, a year or two ago.
Now, the Federal Government has impacted aid for public housing. That, I
think, is completely ridiculous and cannot be justified. But they keep adding a
little bit every other year or so, and the net result is it destroys the integrity of
the program A on the one hand and possibly B in the second.
So, it's not a minor amount when you take it all throughout the United States
for all the military installations. It totals about $600 million. That's what the
whole package costs. That's not what I recommended. But that's what the total
package for all impacted aid costs the Federal Government for all installations,
about $600 million.
So, we're talking about big money, not a little.
One other comment, and I don't mean to imply John or Joe are involved, but
what really burns me up-and let me illustrate it by my own circumstances—
Betty and I live in Alexandria, Virginia. We bought and lived in a home where
1243
