[473]
May 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
eloquently than any words of my commitment to the survival and security of
Israel.
It is essential that we remain true to our commitments, not only for ourselves
but for all those who rely upon us. We must never lose the vision that has made
our country a beacon to all who seek freedom. But our strength and our goals
are to no avail if we lack the courage, the unity, and the will to utilize our
strength in support of our friends. Without cohesiveness of purpose at home, our
friends cannot really be protected nor our opponents long dissuaded from
aggressive actions.
My dedication to Israel's future goes beyond its military needs to a far, far
higher priority-the need for peace. We appreciate Israel's dilemma in moving
toward peace. Israel is asked to relinquish territory-a concrete and essentially
irreversible step-in return for basically intangible political measures. But it
is only in willingness to dare to exchange the tangible for the intangible that
hostility can be ended and peace attained.
I am very, very proud that my administration-that during this administration,
I should say—the United States has seen a major and a very successful movement
toward peace, prosperity, and trust abroad, as well as at home. Last September's
Sinai agreement was a milestone on the road to peace that would have been
inconceivable just a few years ago. I commend and I thank Israel's bold and
courageous decision. Israelis and Egyptians are no longer dying in the sands
of the Sinai Peninsula.
The peace process must continue without one-sided concessions, but with
steady progress. Stalemate, stagnation create unacceptable risks of further con-
flict. The United States is dedicated to a just and lasting peace in the Middle
East. We have worked over years unceasingly to that end; we shall continue to
do so. Yet, in the final analysis, it is the parties to the dispute who must make
peace a reality.
The responsibility to achieve that peace exists equally on all parties who must
contribute, each in full measure, to the peacemaking process. America's respon-
sibility is to encourage both sides to end the state of war that has for far too
long plagued the Middle East and threatened world peace. The 1973 war has
had dangerous political and economic repercussions throughout the world. It
caused strains on our alliances and near-confrontation with one of our adver-
saries. The resulting oil embargo and drastic and unwarranted oil price increases
caused severe problems of recession as well as inflation.
I will continue, as all of my former colleagues in the Congress will do so, to
work for peace in the Middle East. This is not only for the sake of the Israeli
1568
