April 9
[321]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
America's most prominent politicians calling for massive new Federal spending
programs and for the creation of hundreds of thousands of jobs-Federal pay-
roll jobs.
The administration-I am glad to say in retrospect—and I thought I was
right then-rejected all of these suggestions and all the other suggestions that
were the wrong medicine for the American economy. Common sense told me
that the right course to pursue during economic recovery was to stimulate
growth, growth in the private sector in order to restore our strength.
So, we proposed, and the Congress accepted, a major tax cut for individuals
to increase their purchasing power. We proposed tax incentives for business
expansion and job production in the private sector, where five out of every
six jobs are found in America. And we proposed extended unemployment in-
surance to those Americans who had unfortunately lost their jobs to the reces-
sion, to help cushion the hardship until our national economy was revised and
our strength recovered.
These were very practical, commonsense policies, and they have worked.
Last week, for example, it was announced that we gained 375,000 more jobs
in the month of March alone, bringing the total American work force to 86,-
700,000. More Americans are gainfully employed today than ever before in
the history of the United States. And I would say that is a pretty good come-
back.
In fact, everything that is supposed to be going up—the number of jobs, real
earnings for the American worker, sales, investment, industrial production—all
of these are on the increase. And the Department of Commerce reported today,
retail sales for the month of March were up a strong 2.8 percent from February.
Furthermore, everything that is supposed to be going down—the rate of un-
employment, the rate of inflation, the rate of growth in Federal spending, even
some prices—are going down. The rate of inflation has been cut almost in half
from 12.2 percent to 6.3 percent. The rate of growth in Federal spending has
been cut from 11 percent, which was the rate of growth for a period of about
10 years, to 5½ percent, which was what I recommended in the budget that was
submitted in January. This is progress in trying to get the Federal budget under
control.
And let me illustrate, for example, quite specifically. When we were putting
the budget together in November and December, for submission to the Con-
gress in January, I spent roughly a hundred hours with the top people from
every Department, the Office of Management and Budget, and we found that
if there wasn't a single new program added by Congress or anybody else, just
1041
