[448]
May 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
admiration and our support. Our soldiers and sailors and airmen and marines
and Coast Guard are professionals, and we owe them the finest tools this
country can provide, and we will give them the means to do that job.
The B-1 bomber, a model of which is displayed here today, represents just
one part of our commitment to this task. We have laid the keel for the first of a
series of new missile-launching submarines, the Trident missile fleet, which will
be the foundation for a strong and technologically superior force through the
1980's. We are developing a new main battle tank, new fighters, a new inter-
continental ballistic missile for the 1980's. And one excellent example of ad-
vanced capability is the new cruise missile we are developing for our air and
naval forces. This is a significant technology in which we lead the world.
The weapons we hold today and those we plan for the future give America a
mighty power. But with such power comes a mighty responsibility. We must
never forget the purpose for which our arsenal is intended. That purpose is
not to terrify the weak, to provoke armed confrontation, nor to lay claim to
that which is not ours. Our purpose is to defend freedom and to maintain a
foundation of strength on which a better and more peaceful world can be built.
That thought should motivate every man and woman in our Armed Forces,
and their determination to fulfill that purpose must also live in the hearts of
every American.
We must all do our best to ensure our Nation is well defended, and we must
all do our best to keep America worth defending-peaceful, prosperous, and
free.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11-13 am at the Washington Monument.
449
Memorandum on the Combined Federal Campaign.
May 11, 1976
[Dated May 10, 1976. Released May 11, 1976)
Memorandum for the Heads of Departments and Agencies
I am pleased to announce that The Honorable Richard L. Roudebush, Admin-
istrator of Veterans Affairs, has agreed to serve as Chairman of the Combined
Federal Campaign for the National Capital Area this fall.
This campaign, which will begin in September, combines into a single drive
1518
