[560]
June 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
that this proposed legislation is constitutional; it will simply limit the remedy
to the instance where there has been a violation of a constitutional right. Ac-
cording to him, that is constitutional.
MR. SCHIEFFER. And it is your interpretation that the Keyes case did not in-
validate
THE PRESIDENT. As I understand it, it was a dictum, not a final judgment.
MR. HERMAN. To cut through some of the legal niceties which are a little hard
on us, it seems to me-perhaps I misunderstand it-the final impact of this is
to leave in place all de facto school segregation which has happened without
the breaking of a law?
THE PRESIDENT. The courts already decided that.
MR. HERMAN. So that this is the direction which you wish to encourage law
and legislation to continue?
THE PRESIDENT. We would recommend, as the court has said, we correct
the violations, but we only correct the violations, not make a Federal district
court a local school board.
MISS THOMAS. Mr. President, what chance do you think such legislation
would have of passing, and what constitutional right is violated by being
bused?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the Congress, I think, would be responsive to some
legislation of this kind because I think the public-
MISS THOMAS. This year?
THE PRESIDENT. I would hope so. I can't promise it because I don't control
the Congress, but I do believe there is a great public sentiment for a limitation
or a minimization of the courts in the remedies that they have pursued.
And what was the second?
MISS THOMAS. The second is, what constitutional right is being violated by
being bused?
THE PRESIDENT. Busing is simply a remedy to achieve a correction of an
alleged act by a school board to violate somebody else's constitutional rights.
Busing itself is not a constitutional right, nor is it a lack of a constitutional
right. It is only a remedy.
MISS THOMAS. But isn't it the law of the land to desegregate the schools in this
land?
THE PRESIDENT. Where there has been a specific violation of a person's
constitutional right. It is not beyond that, and that is the real point at issue.
MISS THOMAS. On another subject, Mr. President—
1798
