[566]
June 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
sharing program and that of my Republican opponent. Mr. Reagan wants to
turn the responsibilities for service back to the city of Cleveland, which puts the
taxpayer of Cleveland and the mayor in a very difficult position.
If there is no Federal money available, then Mayor Perk and the taxpayers of
Cleveland either have to reduce services or increase taxes. That is what the
Reagan proposal is. The Ford proposal is to give to the city of Cleveland general
revenue sharing and let the mayor and the city council make the decision how
it should be spent. I think the taxpayers of Cleveland would much more
approve of the Ford proposal than that of my opponent.
REPORTER. Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5.10 pm at the Cleveland Hopkins Airport
567
Remarks at a Republican Party Reception in Cleveland.
June 6, 1976
Jim Rhodes, Bob Taft, Charlie Mosher, Bob Hughes, Ray Bliss, all of the other
distinguished members of the party organization, wonderful Republicans here
today:
I think we can get 97 delegates from the State of Ohio. I spent the better part
of a day in New Jersey today, and they have 67. I challenged them to get all
67. I said that if they did I thought maybe Ohio might get 97.
You know, you good Buckeyes for too many times and too long a period have
been whipping us up in Michigan. Now, just a few weeks ago, the voters in the
Wolverine State gave me 65 percent majority. Can Ohio beat that?
That's one victory I would like to see Ohio achieve over Michigan. But to
be serious, let me say this: We are going to win in Kansas City because the Ford
administration for the last 22 months has had a good record.
We have restored the confidence in the White House that had been dissipated
over the previous period. We have restored the economy, so that from a year
ago we are on the road up. And Jim Rhodes spoke about jobs-300,000 more
jobs in the month of May, 3,600,000 more jobs in the last 12 months.
On last Friday, the Department of Labor announced that for the fourth
successive month there had been an alltime record established in the United
States for more jobs than ever in the history of the United States. We are going
up and up and up with jobs, and they are jobs primarily in the private sector,
1816
