April 29
[388]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
388
Remarks in Houston at the Annual Meeting of the Texas
Nursing Home Association. April 29, 1976
IT'S nice to see some more friendly faces here.
Mr. Pendergast, Senator John Tower, members of the Texas Nursing Home
Association:
It is a privilege and a pleasure for me to have the opportunity to stop by and
make some observations and comments and to thank you for the good job that
you have done not only here in Texas with your organization but with compara-
ble organizations throughout the United States.
I know from personal experience in my State of Michigan that the organiza-
tion or the association there has done a good job, and I'm sure that that is
likewise true here, and I congratulate you and compliment you.
But let me talk for just a few minutes about some of the things that I am
trying to do to make certain, to make positive that the 32 million or 33 million
Americans who are the beneficiaries of social security and other Federal pro-
grams are properly taken care of.
You, I'm sure, know that in the State of the Union Message that I submitted
to the Congress in January of 1976, I recommended the full cost-of-living
increase for social security recipients. And it is my understanding that based on
the calculations that have been made by the proper authorities, that will be 6.4
percent, as I recall, as of July 1 of this year.
I believe that we, as a nation, hold an obligation to that part of our society,
that they bought and paid for the benefits that are coming and ought to be given
to them under the law.
Another program that I feel Congress ought to act on is what is commonly
known as catastrophic insurance. It has been my experience as I traveled around
the country to see in many, many instances, individuals who were good citizens
and saved their money and planned for their retirement all of a sudden be hit
with a catastrophic illness where the costs were great, where the time that they
had to spend in a hospital or a nursing home was very, very extended.
And I am told under Medicaid that there are roughly 3 to 4 million of our
fellow citizens who are adversely affected by a catastrophic illness. I think we
owe an obligation to them because they, under no circumstances, could pay the
cost to maintain adequate care during this tragedy.
So I recommended to the Congress that something be done about it. Un-
1315
