April 13
[339]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
budget, including the military budget-those decisions were made in November
and December. I looked at the trendline that the Congress had established by
its $32 or $33 billion reduction, and I knew that that could not be tolerated.
I know also, or knew at the time, that the defense budgets had been in current
dollars, had been going up at the rate of about 5, 5.5 percent. And in order to
rectify what Congress had been doing, in the budget that I submitted in Janu-
ary, the decisions having been made in November and December put that rate
of increase up to 11 percent. So, these were decisions made by me at a time when
there was no opposition involved, as far as the Republican nomination was
concerned.
SECRETARY OF STATE KISSINGER
[3.] Q. Mr. President, did you know in advance that Rogers Morton' was
going to predict that Secretary Kissinger would not last very much longer in
his current job?
The President. I was quite surprised, because as far as I am concerned that is
not true. And I will reiterate, probably in somewhat different words, what I
have said over and over again for the last number of months: I think Secretary
Kissinger has been one of the finest, if not the finest Secretary of State this
country has ever had. I believe that our foreign policy has been successful. And
you don't get rid of somebody in an organization if they are good; and Secretary
Kissinger, as I indicated, has been an outstanding Secretary of State. I think my
administration knows-all of them-how I feel. I don't think those comments
will be made in the future. [Laughter]
Q. Even granting all that about Kissinger and making the same assumptions,
is it possible that all the controversy surrounding him and coming from many
different quarters may undermine his effectiveness as an exponent of your policy,
that he might feel he might have to resign or withdraw before the end of the
year?
THE PRESIDENT. Certainly, the constant attacks by some might mislead some
of our friends abroad and our adversaries abroad, but if you look at the polls,
Secretary Kissinger does uniformly very, very well across the country. So the
American people, I believe, as a whole support him as much, if not more than
almost any other public official. So, I believe that the people abroad, whether
they are adversaries or friends or allies, understand that we are going through
our every 4-year political partisan experience, and they discount it. So, I don't
think his effectiveness will be eroded at all.
ยน President Ford Committee campaign manager.
1123
