April 23
[355]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
355
Exchange With Reporters on Arrival at Evansville,
Indiana. April 23, 1976
THANK YOU very much, Mr. Mayor. I am not a stranger to Evansville.
I've been here two or three times before, and it's great to come back. And I ap-
preciate very, very much this thoughtful mug that epitomizes freedom of
speech—and we've got a lot of that these days—but it is nice to be here and I
thank you, Mr. Mayor, as well as all the people of Evansville.
I would be glad to answer any questions from any of the local news media.
REPORTER. Mr. President, a month ago your State campaign manager said you
would not be coming to Indiana because of the lead that you had in this State, but
here you are, just before the primary. Has there been a change in strategy or a
reevaluation of the lead?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I decided that because I had such good leadership here
in Indiana and so many friends that I wanted to come to Indiana and to make
sure that I supported them as they have supported me. And because we think
Indiana is a crucial State, I'm here. And I've had a wonderful trip so far.
Q. Mr. President, there have been some charges locally that inequity exists in
the funding of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, and
even some Indiana officials have suggested that the HUD program be dropped. I
would like to know your feelings on this.
The President. Well, I think the Community Development Program, which
was approved in late 1974, is a program that is aimed at holding harmless every
local community that had been previously the beneficiary of seven categorical
grant programs. And so under the program that I approved—and we are fund-
ing every city, regardless of where it is-it is held harmless. That includes those
of Indiana.
So, these programs, in my opinion, where we have gotten rid of the seven
categorical grant programs and have turned to what we call block grant pro-
grams that are much more economical, much more effective, and it gives to
the mayor here in Evansville and his associates in local government a lot more
authority to make the decisions. So, as long as the money is the same or more,
I think the programs ought to be continued.
Q. Mr. President, if the Federal revenue sharing funds are cut, as you pro-
pose, Evansville will be hurt. How can you justify that?
THE PRESIDENT. Under no circumstances have I advocated the reduction
1169
