[514]
May 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
514
Statement on the Japanese Diet's Approval for Ratification of
the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons.
May 24, 1976
I WELCOME the Japanese Diet's approval for ratification of the Treaty on the
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. This action is a singularly important
event in the life of the treaty, which is a pillar of international efforts to prevent
the spread of nuclear weapons and to contribute to the broader goal of nuclear
arms control.
Japan, one of our closest allies, has one of the world's most extensive, peaceful
nuclear programs. Ratification of the treaty will clearly add to the treaty's vitality
and effectiveness and to the extension of the international safeguards regime. It
should also facilitate Japan's peaceful nuclear endeavors and enhance Japan's
influence on nuclear arms control.
As I have frequently stated, our efforts to prevent nuclear proliferation are
receiving high priority. I am encouraged by the progress being made in this
field. We are thus especially gratified by this further demonstration of Japanese
dedication to the same goal. We trust that Japan's example will encourage yet
broader adherence to the treaty and its objectives.
NOTE: The statement was released in Anaheim, Calif.
515
Exchange With Reporters on Arrival at Las Vegas, Nevada.
May 24, 1976
GOOD MORNING. It's great to be in Las Vegas. I have been here a good many
times, not only in Las Vegas but in Reno, and had a nice trip up to Elko a few
years ago.
It's a day for good news for us. We just got the results from the meeting in
New York where they came out 119 for Ford and 18 for my opponent, and I
think 15 uncommitted, which takes us up very close to 700 in the delegate count.
We're very optimistic.
Of course, the six primaries that are being held tomorrow, including the one
in Nevada, are very important. We are here in Nevada to see some old friends
and to do all that we can to stimulate a good vote on my behalf tomorrow. We
1680
