May 13
[468]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
-The Senate has passed the Financial Institutions Act which is the most
sweeping reform of banking regulation in over 40 years.
-We have increased civil and criminal penalties for antitrust violations to
insure that competition flourishes.
-We have interjected competition into the setting of stock brokerage fees
for the first time since the major stock exchanges were established almost 200
years ago.
-We have reduced the amount of ICC regulation of railroads for the first
time since the creation of that agency in 1887, and have proposed comprehen-
sive and long overdue reforms of airline and motor carrier regulation.
These are important steps, but they are only a beginning. We need a better
understanding of the combined effects of all government regulatory activities
on our economy and our lives. We need to eliminate contradictions and overlaps.
We need to abolish outdated and unnecessary regulation. We need to strengthen
the effectiveness of Congressional oversight of government operations.
To meet these needs, I am today submitting the Agenda for Government Re-
form Act which would establish a four-year action program to work toward
these goals. It would produce comprehensive reforms to:
-guarantee that government policies do not infringe unnecessarily on in-
dividual choice and initiative nor intervene needlessly in the market place.
-find better ways to achieve our social goals at minimal economic cost.
-insure that government policies and programs benefit the public interest
rather than special interests.
-assure that regulatory policies are equitably enforced.
This legislation would require the President to develop legislative reform
proposals by January 31 of each year, and Congress would be required to act
upon them. Such a disciplined approach will help focus attention on major,
yet often neglected, aspects of government activities. This Agenda will
require the assessment of the cumulative impact of government actions on major
sectors of the economy and build a rational basis for more informed trade-offs
between broad economic goals, such as more jobs and lower prices, and specific
regulatory objectives, such as cleaner air and adequate rural services. And it
will help identify the hidden costs imposed on the economy by government
regulation.
This legislation is the product of joint Congressional and Executive branch
interest in seeking long term solutions to our regulatory problems. Senators
Charles Percy and Robert Byrd have been leaders in pressing for comprehensive
reforms. In the House of Representatives, Congresswoman Barbara Jordan and
1555
