April 9
[323]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
323
Remarks at the Irving Bar Association Law Day Dinner in
Irving, Texas. April 9, 1976
Thank you very much, Martin. Senator Tower, President John Lawrence, Ed
Kinkeade, members of the judiciary, members of the Irving Bar Association,
guests:
It is a a very great privilege and honor for me to have the opportunity of coming
to Irving and participating in the Law Day ceremonies here in this part of the
State of Texas.
I have had the privilege and honor a good many times to visit many parts of
the State of Texas. Fortunately, I have a good many acquaintances, and my
closest friends and acquaintances are, or have been, the Members of the House
of Representatives and the Senate from your State, one of whom is here this
evening, John Tower.
I must say—and I say this with emphasis and sincerity—having spent 25
years in the Congress, you get to know good delegations and those that don't
quite make it. John Tower represents the high quality of the Texas delegation,
whether they are Democrat or Republican, and as I said, members of your dele-
gation have been my very closest and best friends, whether on my side of the
aisle or on the other. And I want to compliment your State in having such out-
standing statesmen represent you in Washington, D.C., and John Tower is one
of them.
Texas, they tell me, is number one in the country in many, many, many im-
portant ways—number one in cattle production, number one in oil production,
number one in cotton, and often number one in football. [Laughter] I am de-
lighted to see tonight that you are certainly still second to none in hospitality, and
for that I thank you very, very much.
Now, in observance of Law Day here in Irving, I thought it would be ex-
tremely appropriate if I directed my remarks to an increasingly serious problem
all across America, and when I say "all across America," I mean its totality. And
I hope and trust that you will not misunderstand what I say tonight by indirec-
tion or otherwise that I might be talking just about Texas. This is a problem
that affects all 50 States, and I think it is time that all of us-whether we are from
Texas or Michigan or elsewhere—that we get a refocus on this serious matter
that involves a good many fine people in our society.
As practitioners of the law, as leaders of your community, as loving parents,
1057
