[318]
April 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
ing into it. We understand there are allegations that in the application that was
made, that there were some misstatements made. Whether that is true or not,
I can't honestly tell you here this morning. I can only assure you that if there
were misstatements made to justify the award, appropriate action will be taken.
PANAMA CANAL
[2] Q. Mr. President, please do not give away the Panama Canal.
THE PRESIDENT. Sir, I don't think you have to worry about that. The United
States, as far as I am concerned, will never give up its defense responsibilities |
and capabilities. It will never give up the right of navigation and so forth. You
just don't have to worry.
JOHN CONNALLY
[3.] Q. Thank you for recognizing me. Will big John Connally be your Vice
President? [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Some very attractive lady said, "No, make it Anne Arm-
strong." [Laughter] Well, Anne has got a big job, you know. We sent Anne
over to be the first U.S. Ambassador of Great Britain in the history, and I think
from what I hear, she is wowing them over there. [Laughter]
Let me say we have a number of outstanding, potential Republican candidates
for Vice President. We have some in the Congress. We have some Governors;
we have some former Governors. Certainly, John Connally has outstanding
qualifications, having served as Governor of this State for 6 years. He was Sec-
retary of the Navy, Secretary of the Treasury. He is an outstanding person, but
I think it is premature to make any comment. In the first place, I have to get
nominated myself. [Laughter]
Q. President Ford, are you taking credit for all of the savings, the $13 billion,
is that plus interest or does that include interest?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, that is money that we didn't spend because the vetoes
were sustained. So, if we didn't spend it, we are saving not only the cash, but
the interest that would have had to be paid if we had to borrow more. We are
going to keep on vetoing, vetoing, and vetoing, because that is the only way we
can teach that irresponsible Congress, or a majority of them.
COMMUNISM AND NATO
[4.] Q. Mr. President, if the Communist Party keeps going in Italy, how will
that affect our NATO relationship?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I have said, not only while in the United States but I
have spoken very directly to the top people in NATO coming from the 15
1034
