May 7
[437]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
increasing volume of similar legislation which this Congress has passed or is
considering. Such legislation would pose a serious threat to our system of gov-
ernment, and would forge impermissible shackles on the President's ability to
carry out the laws and conduct the foreign relations of the United States. The
President cannot function effectively in domestic matters, and speak for the
nation authoritatively in foreign affairs, if his decisions under authority previ-
ously conferred can be reversed by a bare majority of the Congress. Also, the
attempt of Congress to become a virtual co-administrator in operational deci-
sions would seriously distract it from its proper legislative role. Inefficiency,
delay, and uncertainty in the management of our nation's foreign affairs would
eventually follow.
Apart from these basic constitutional deficiencies which appear in six sections
of the bill, S. 2662 is faulty legislation, containing numerous unwise restrictions.
Annual Ceiling on Arms Sales
A further objectionable feature of S. 2662 is an annual ceiling of $9.0 billion
on the total of government sales and commercial exports of military equipment
and services. In our search to negotiate mutual restraints in the proliferation of
conventional weapons, this self-imposed ceiling would be an impediment to our
efforts to obtain the cooperation of other arms-supplying nations. Such an arbi-
trary ceiling would also require individual transactions to be evaluated, not on
their own merits, but on the basis of their relationship to the volume of other,
unrelated transactions. This provision would establish an arbitrary, overall lim-
itation as a substitute for case-by-case analyses and decisions based on foreign
policy priorities and the legitimate security needs of our allies and friends.
Discrimination and Human Rights
This bill also contains well-intended but misguided provisions to require the
termination of military cooperation with countries which engage in practices
that discriminate against United States citizens or practices constituting a con-
sistent pattern of gross human rights violations. This Administration is fully
committed to a policy of not only actively opposing but also seeking the elimi-
nation of discrimination by foreign governments against United States citizens
on the basis of their race, religion, national origin or sex, just as the Administra-
tion is fully supportive of internationally recognized human rights as a standard
for all nations to respect. The use of the proposed sanctions against sovereign
nations is, however, an awkward and ineffective device for the promotion of
those policies. These provisions of the bill represent further attempts to ignore
important and complex policy considerations by requiring simple legalistic tests
1483
