April 9
[321]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
one thing the Federal Government is not good at, it is trying to decide the best
local solution to a local problem.
So, the general revenue sharing program lets the Federal Government collect
the money and then give it back to local and State units of government to spend
as they see fit under the watchful eye of local voters. And I think they keep a
pretty good eye on you, don't they, Mayor Harrison? [Laughter]
But anyhow, by the end of this year, the city of Dallas will have received
more than $56 million under the revenue sharing program which began in
1972. Dallas County will have received more than $20 million, and all of Texas
will have received $1.5 billion.
Under the extension of the revenue sharing program that I proposed last
summer to the Congress, Dallas would receive more than $85 million; in the
next 5 years, Dallas County almost $35 million, and all of Texas would receive
approximately $2 billion.
Now, you will be interested to note this: that the total cost of the Federal
Government's administration of the revenue sharing program is only one-eighth
of 1 penny of every dollar distributed to State and local units of government.
That is what I would call holding bureaucratic overhead to a bare minimum,
and I intend to see that that trend is encouraged in other Federal programs in
the next 4 years.
Now, we all know that it wasn't an all-powerful government that made Amer-
ica the great Nation that it is today. It was people—people. I want to ensure
that the Government is always the capable servant, but never the master of the
American people.
And as we look to the future in this age of giant institutions, it is our common
responsibility to see that the individual freedom is strengthened in America. In
this climate, the American people grew to greatness. This is the climate we
must preserve, restore in America as we enter our third century of independence.
If we take this as our common task and our common goal, we cannot and we
will not fail.
I thank you, and I will now be glad to answer the questions.
QUESTIONS
AGRICULTURAL PROGRAMS
[1.] Q. Mr. President, do you believe that the Government should stop
supporting farm subsidies in order to let the market become or get more back
to a state of equilibrium? That is my question.
1043
