April 9
[318]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
ent spirit, determination, and faith. As we dedicate ourselves again here today
to the defense of these priceless treasures, we know that they are the same ones
which others fought for on this site 140 years ago.
May we always share their courage, and may Americans always be inspired
as we have all been by those thrilling words which echo still in this old court-
yard—“Remember the Alamo.”
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:15 p.m. at the
Alamo Plaza, where he received the medallion of
the city of San Antonio from Mayor Lila Cockrell.
He was introduced by Senator John G. Tower, chair-
man of the Texas President Ford Committee.
318
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session at a Republican
Party Reception in San Antonio. April 9, 1976
Thank you very, very much, John, and Seagal Wheatley and all of you good
Republicans:
I have been in San Antonio 3 or 4 hours thus far. I have been here a number of
times before, but I am deeply grateful for the warm reception and the oppor-
tunity to meet many, many more wonderful people from San Antonio.
Let me say something that I feel very deeply about. It has been my privilege
during the period of some 25 years in the House of Representatives to have many,
many contacts with Members of the Senate on both sides of the aisle, as well as a
good many Members of the House. You are so fortunate from the State of Texas
to have John here-John Tower-as your United States Senator. I am deeply
grateful for his strong support, and I would be most appreciative and grateful for
any support that any of you can give me in the forthcoming race.
But let me give you some thoughts as to what has happened in the 19-plus
months that I have been privileged to be President. Let me assure you it hasn't
been the easiest time. Nineteen months ago, if you will refresh your memories a
bit, you will recall that we were suffering inflation of about 12 to 13 percent. We
were on the brink of the worst recession for some 40 years in the history of the
United States, and within a very few months after I became President, unemploy-
ment soared, employment plummeted.
And there were all kinds of quick fixes and various panic proposals coming
from the other side of the aisle-the liberal side of the Democratic Party-to try
and get us to do this or do that, to try and solve our economic problems.
1031
