[606]
June 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
to Mrs. Waring, the American flag in honor of a distinguished and dedicated
Foreign Service officer.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:42 p.m. at An-
drews Air Force Base, Md., where he and Secre
tary of State Henry A. Kissinger met the plane
bearing the bodies of Francis E. Meloy, Jr., U.S.
Ambassador to Lebanon, and Robert O. Waring.
Economic Counselor of the US. Embassy in
Lebanon.
In his opening remarks, the President referred to
Daniel Meloy, the Ambassador's brother, and Mrs.
Robert Waring, the Counselor's wife.
607
Statement Following the Evacuation of American Citizens
From Lebanon. June 20, 1976
THE evacuation operation in Beirut today was completed successfully without
incident. The success of this operation was made possible through the combined
efforts of our Armed Forces and State Department personnel both here and in
the field.
I want to express my deep appreciation and pride in the outstanding perform-
ance of all the men and women who contributed to this effort. We are grateful
as well for the assistance of other governments and individuals that facilitated
the evacuation. The United States will continue to play a positive role in seeking
to restore stability and bring peace to Lebanon.
I would like to express to all those who played a part in the success of this
operation my heartfelt thanks.
608
Exchange With Reporters on the Evacuation of American
Citizens From Lebanon. June 20, 1976
Reporter. Could we just get a few words about your feelings about the evacua-
tion operation in Lebanon so far?
THE PRESIDENT. The evacuation was a complete success. I wish to congratulate
the Department of Defense, the Department of State, and all other agencies that
were involved. It was well-planned; it was well-executed. I am grateful for the
cooperation of the other states and other organizations that cooperated to restrain
any violence or to keep the area secure while the evacuation went on.
The United States will continue its role of a peacemaker in Lebanon. We will
1896
