May 24
[520]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Thank you very much.
[At this point, the President concluded his remarks in the International Room of the El
Cortez Convention Center and went downstairs to address the overflow crowd as follows:]
Thank you very much, Mayor Pete Wilson:
I am not going to repeat what I said upstairs, but let me say how nice it is to
come to San Diego and to make some new friends and to meet some old
friends—and three ex-shipmates, as I walked out, that I didn't know were in
the audience—Admiral Tom Hamilton, who was one of my shipmates in that
he got me, along with a good many others, to join the Navy back in 1941, and
then two of my shipmates on the Monterey, which was CVL-26.
So, it's nice to come and see all of you and to run into people that you knew
and worked with and had an opportunity to serve with. There are some real
blessings in having a chance to travel around the country and meet people, as
well as get reacquainted with old friends.
It's just nice to see you, and let me reassure you that if I had the opportunity
to continue the job that we have undertaken, I can assure you without any
hesitation, qualification, or reservation, we won't let you down.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:10 p.m. at the El
Cortez Convention Center. In his opening remarks,
he referred to Mayor Pete Wilson of San Diego,
Evelle J. Younger, California State attorney general,
Rear Adm. Herbert G. Stoecklein, USN (ret.),
president of the San Diego Council of the Navy
League, and Evan V. Jones, president of the San
Diego Chamber of Commerce.
520
Remarks at a President Ford Committee Reception in
San Diego. May 24, 1976
THANK YOU very much, Maggie, and thank all of you for being here. I'm
darned encouraged by what I find in California. One of the very nice things
that I find in traveling around the country and meeting people like all of you
here is not only to make new friends and acquaintances but to see some of the
people that I've known over a long, long period of time.
There's a very good friend of mine from a good many years back, Phil Bengt-
sen. He played football at the University of Minnesota when I played at the
University of Michigan. We were good rivals in those days. He probably gave
me a hard time, and I tried to reciprocate, but we were also friends when we came
out to the Shrine East-West football game, played on the eastern team against
1697
