[581]
June 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
581
Exchange With Reporters on Departure From Toledo, Ohio.
June 7, 1976
Governor Rhodes, Bob Taft, Del Latta, and all of the other members of the
congressional delegation:
I want to thank you for being such wonderful hosts and wonderful supporters.
I can't express deeply enough my appreciation for the wonderful, unbelievable
warmth and generosity of the people of the great State of Ohio during this
long but very, very warming day.
I want to thank everyone, the Governor and the whole group who have
really come out and worked with me in trying to make certain and positive
that our program is one that the people of Ohio understand, that the people
of Ohio like, and the people of Ohio will support.
Now, it has been a great day here, and I met with the press, and we are about
to leave to go back to Washington. I will be glad to answer a question or two
if you have any.
REPORTER. Mr. President, could you tell us what happened back at the uni-
versity and your reaction, how you feel about it?
THE PRESIDENT. As I understand it, just a little bulb from one of the cameras
exploded, and it sounded like it might be ominous, but it turned out just to be a
little bulb. And I look pretty healthy, don't I? [Laughter]
Q. Mr. President, there was a report tonight that some Republicans are a
little angry about the California spots and were threatening to withhold support
for the convention. Will you comment on that, sir?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me say, as I understand the spots, they told the truth
as to what my opponent said and they told the truth as to what I said. The
American people want the truth, and I think it is the obligation of the candi-
dates to tell the American people where they stand. As long as we tell the truth,
I think the American people will support it.
Q. Mr. President, you spent the early part of your campaign saying that
you and Ronald Reagan had almost identical philosophies. Now you say Mr.
Reagan may be a dangerous man to have in the White House. How do you
reconcile that?
THE PRESIDENT. Those are your words, not my words. I have never said that.
Q. Do you still have the same philosophy?
THE PRESIDENT. I have said that, basically, on domestic philosophy our views
1856
