[525]
May 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
The way to real recovery, enduring prosperity in America was not through
government quick fixes. It's never worked in the past and I knew deep in my
heart it wouldn't work in America in the future.
I had a faith in America that it, as a country, and 215 million of us, would
work our way out of its economic difficulties rather than to try and spend our
way out. I proposed, and the Congress accepted, a major tax cut for individuals,
tax incentives for business to expand and to increase job production so that we
could get the great free enterprise system in this country working at full speed
again.
We also began a comprehensive effort to restore the confidence of the Ameri-
can people in themselves, in their government, and in their future. This was
absolutely essential—to restore the economic confidence of the consumer, a very,
very key element in a recovery policy.
As we look back over the last 21 or 22 months, these policies have been suc-
cessful. America is in the midst of a strong and surging recovery, and we, as
Americans, should be very proud of it, as I am.
The real gross national product rose during the first quarter-January, Feb-
ruary, and March of this year-at an annual rate of 81 percent-far, far
above even the most optimistic predictions. Since the bottom of the recession
about a year ago, we have gained 3,300,000 jobs, and more than 700,000 new
jobs in the last month alone. More Americans-87,400,000—are on the job today,
more than ever before in the history of this great country. We are moving
dramatically in the right direction, but I will not be satisfied until every Ameri-
can who wants a job can find a job.
We will not achieve full employment by letting the Federal Government plan
and control our national economy. Just over a week ago, I proposed to the Con-
gress a 4-year agenda for action on comprehensive regulatory reform in every
major segment of our economy. My administration, since I have taken this
great trust in this wonderful office, has undertaken some of the most funda-
mental reform in Government regulations and in reporting requirements in the
Nation's history.
Small businesses in this country spend something like $18 billion every year
just to comply with government reporting requirements. Most of the mer-
chants in America are small business men and women, and it's time they got
back to working for their customers instead of working for the Federal Gov-
ernment. And it's time the Government minded its own business and let you
run yours and your lives.
More government will not solve America's economic problems. The answer
1716
