May 3
[420]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
learned a lot in dealing with this Congress-I want to read the fine print.
[Laughter]
It is not what I recommended. It has been improved in the last 72 hours, but
whether it's sufficiently improved to permit me in good conscience to sign it,
I must take the time tomorrow when I get to the office to look at it with great
care before making a final decision.
NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE
[7.] Q. Mr. President, I am with Insurance and Investment Consultants.
I'm president of the Birmingham Chapter of Charter Life Underwriters. The
subject is national health insurance. I'd like for you to give us your stand on the
role of the private insurance sector in the delivery system of national health in-
surance, as it might get to your desk for approval.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, first, I'm categorically opposed to the approach, the
so-called Kennedy bill, which would totally federalize the health insurance pro-
gram. I did not recommend in my State of the Union Message this year any
health insurance program because of the critical fiscal situation that we have in
the Federal Government. I did seek to, or tried to convince the Congress that we
ought to try to restrain some of the costs in the medical, in the Medicaid pro-
grams, for example.
I have made no firm commitment as to any national health insurance except
that I am very strongly opposed to the Kennedy approach.
Now, when I first became President there was an administration bill before
the Congress that would have proposed a form of national health insurance,
but that program would have used the private health insurance companies in
the giving of the services to the beneficiary. But I have not in 1976 endorsed
even that because I just didn't think under the current circumstances that we
could afford it.
We will constantly study the problem to see if we can get some cost control,
to see how the private insurance companies meet the demand and, as I under-
stand it, about 86 percent of our total population is now covered by one form or
another of health insurance. But I can say one thing for sure-the Kennedy bill,
never.
UNITED STATES-AFRICAN TRADE
[8.] Q. Mr. President, I would like to ask, since there's been so much con-
troversy concerning Africa and Communist control, what country has the
strongest trading potential as far as American exports are concerned?
1455
