May 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
465
[465]
Memorandum on the Cabinet Committee on Drug Abuse
Prevention, Treatment, and Rehabilitation. May 13, 1976
[Dated May 12, 1976. Released May 13, 1976]
Memorandum for the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Labor, the Secretary
of Health, Education, and Welfare, the Administrator of Veterans' Affairs
SUBJECT: Cabinet Committee on Drug Abuse Prevention, Treatment and
Rehabilitation
The need to provide humane and effective drug abuse prevention, treatment
and rehabilitation services, to balance our law enforcement efforts aimed at
drug traffickers, has been clearly established. Given the magnitude of the drug
abuse problem and its impact on the health and well-being of our nation, it is
vitally important that the efforts of the various departments and agencies of the
Federal government responsible for providing these services be integrated into
an effective overall program.
In my recent message to the Congress on drug abuse,ยน I announced the estab-
lishment of a Cabinet Committee on Drug Abuse Prevention, Treatment and
Rehabilitation, to have responsibility for oversight and coordination of all Fed-
eral activities in this area. You are hereby appointed members of the Cabinet
Committee, along with such other members as I may appoint from time to time.
The Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare will serve as Chairman of the
Cabinet Committee.
The Cabinet Committee shall be supported by a Working Group composed
of personnel from each Federal department and agency having drug abuse pre-
vention, treatment or rehabilitation responsibility and the Office of Management
and Budget. The Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare shall designate
an Executive Director of the Cabinet Committee, who shall be Chairman of
the Working Group.
The Cabinet Committee shall be responsible for the coordination of all poli-
cies of the Federal government relating to the drug abuse prevention, treatment
and rehabilitation services, as well as related research activities. To the maxi-
mum extent permitted by law, Federal departments, agencies and offices shall
cooperate with the Cabinet Committee in carrying out its responsibilities.
1 See Item 368.
1551
