[508]
May 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
trust to America. Today, America is at peace. There are no American boys fight-
ing anywhere on the face of the world, and I intend to keep it that way.
Our military strength remains unsurpassed. We have the best-equipped, the
best-trained, the best-led fighting force in the world, and they are all volunteers.
Your sons and your husbands are not being drafted under the Ford
administration.
I will maintain the peace as I have achieved it. I will secure that peace through
strength and through perseverance and leave that legacy of peace for our chil-
dren and for their children.
I will continue my policies of cutting your taxes, expanding the economy, re-
ducing bureaucracy and useless regulation, and restraining Federal spending.
My policies have brought us from the depths of a recession to a sustained eco-
nomic recovery and will ensure that runaway inflation never robs us or our loved
ones of the rewards of honest work and lifetime savings.
Finally, I will finish my most important job-restoration of trust in the
Presidency itself. As your President, I will promise you no more than I can de-
liver and deliver everything that I promise.
I need your support to ensure peace, increasing prosperity, and trust for the
future. The future belongs to those who come after us. Americans have always
wanted life to be better for the children than it was for us, because life for us
has been better than it was for our parents.
What do I see ahead for this wonderful country, the United States of Amer-
ica? I see a strong and confident America, secure in a strength that cannot
alone be counted in megatons and a nation rejoicing in riches that cannot be
eroded by inflation or by taxation.
I see an America where life is valued for its quality as well as for its comfort,
where the individual is inviolate in his constitutional rights, where the govern-
ment serves and the people rule.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2 p.m. in the
Happy Canyon Arena at the Pendleton Memorial
Armory. In his opening remarks, he referred to
Len B. Jordan, Governor of Idaho 1951-55 and
U.S. Senator from Idaho 1962-73.
As printed above, this item follows the text of
the White House press release.
1664
