June 3
[551]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
551
Remarks at a Meeting To Discuss General Revenue Sharing.
June 3, 1976
Mr. Speaker, Mr. Vice President, Governors, mayors, Members of the Congress:
This meeting was called at the suggestion of the New Coalition, which is
composed of Governors, mayors, and other locally elected officials because of
their concern as to the status of general revenue sharing. I have been concerned,
as I think all of you know, because the date is getting very close at hand when
the present legislation expires on December 31, 1976.
In the meantime, Governors, mayors, and other locally elected officials have a
serious problem of determining what they can include or what they can't include
in their budgets that must be submitted to their constituents. I have talked to
Members of Congress on both sides of the aisle, talked to the leadership of both
the House and the Senate. Time is running short. And so I am delighted to have
this opportunity of bringing the Governors and mayors and others together with
the Members of the House, the leadership, Democratic as well as Republican,
to determine how quickly we can act and what kind of legislation we can expect.
If legislation is not enacted, the Governors as well as the mayors and others
will be faced with making decisions—either they have to increase local taxes or
they have to cut back services. It seems to me, the better solution is to get an ex-
tension of our general revenue sharing legislation which was first enacted in
1972 and, under the proposal I made, would extend for another 5 years.
Time is running short. I hope that out of this meeting we can come to some
agreement as to what can be done and how quickly it can be done.
I am familiar with the fact that the House Committee on Government Oper-
ations has concluded its deliberations and has gotten a rule to proceed next week,
I understand. But it's anticipated, or I would hope it's anticipated, it would be
on the floor very quickly.
In conclusion, I would simply emphasize the need for action and the kind of
action which would extend the present law to the maximum degree, both as to
dollars and as to time. I thank you all for being here.
Mr. Speaker, would you like to make a statement?
SPEAKER CARL ALBERT. We have put it down subject to a rule for Wednesday
next.
THE PRESIDENT. That would be good.
Bob, would you like to make a statement?
1777
