[657]
July 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
And as you know, we indicated to Prime Minister Rabin that we were gratified
that the Israelis had taken the very specific action to free the hostages, and at the
same time we reiterated our firm opposition to international terrorism.
Q. Did we know in advance of that Israeli raid?
THE PRESIDENT. We did not.
PROSPECTS FOR A REPUBLICAN VICTORY IN NOVEMBER
[5.] Q. Mr. President, is there not concern that if you should win a narrow
victory at the convention and receive the nomination by a small majority, that
you will have some difficulty winning the election, being a member of the
minority party?
THE PRESIDENT. Not at all. The competition has been close, controversial,
and if you win, you win. I talk very affirmatively about the need and necessity
for a unified party. I think we can leave Kansas City with a win and a unified
party.
And once we get the nomination, we can start pointing out the distinct differ-
ences between the prospective Democratic nominee and myself; we can talk
about the record that we have. It is a record that I think will be applauded
objectively by 99 and 9/10 percent of the delegates to the Republican Convention.
I think it will appeal to a good many Independents, and I have already had
some indications that there are some Democrats who think the record of the
Ford administration is a good one. So, we will enter the campaign after the
convention with a good opportunity to prevail November 2.
PRICE OF OIL
[6.] Q. Mr. President, when you met with the Saudi official' this morning,
did he indicate to you that oil prices will be going up again at the end of the
year, or didn't you discuss this at all?
THE PRESIDENT. There was no discussion of the prospect of any oil price in-
crease. I expressed my appreciation for the action by OPEC in not increasing
oil prices in their recent meeting. I pointed out I thought that was in the best
interests of the free world and that it would be beneficial not only to the oil con-
sumers but the oil producers in the long run.
DISTRIBUTION OF CONVENTION ACCOMMODATIONS
[7.] Mr. President, this morning Tom Curtis, former FEC Chairman who,
'Prince Abdallah bin Abd al-Aziz-Saud, the Second Deputy Prime Minister and Commander of the
National Guard of Saudi Arabia, met with the President and also presented him with Bentennial gifts
from Saudi Arabia.
1990
