May 14
[479]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
and knowledge, a capability of dealing with the Congress, a course with a
pilot who knows how to get the job done. And that job is very simple—the
job of peace through strength, from recession to recovery, from fear to faith.
And with your help-and I ask you here in Memphis today and in Shelby
County-I need, I want your help, and I won't let you down in the next 4 years.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:37 p.m. at the
Mid America Mall after receiving the key to the
city from Mayor Wyeth Chandler. In his opening
remarks, he referred to Mayor Roy Nixon of Shelby
County.
479
Remarks at a President Ford Committee Volunteers Reception
in Memphis. May 14, 1976
THANK YOU very, very much, Howard. Let me add a postscript to what
Howard just said. What he did say in compliments to all of you was not some-
thing he just said for you here, because he has been telling Jimmy Quillen and
myself and Governor Dunn that all the way from Johnson City. So, he really
means it. And I can see from the enthusiasm and the record that you have that
we are going to do very well here. And it is not the record that I have, it is not
anybody else, but it is the hard work on the telephone and in the precincts and
every other way that you people do, and for that I am very, very grateful.
Now, let's think about what we have to do between now and May 25. We
have got a couple of very important primaries next Tuesday, and then the fol-
lowing Tuesday it is countdown day right here in the State of Tennessee.
Tennessee, along with Kentucky, are very crucial. We expect to get some
momentum next week up there in Michigan and Maryland. And let me assure
you, if we get that momentum, we want it to be contagious, and we want it
right down here in Tennessee as well.
Now, we have got great leadership here with Senator Baker, Governor Dunn,
Jimmy Quillen, Robin Beard, my old friend Dan Kuykendall, and Bill Brock.
It is just a great organization of people that have either served with me in the
Congress or I have known, such as Governor Dunn, when he was the Gov-
ernor of your State and did so extremely well and who was the head of the
Governor's Conference. These people have had an opportunity to observe, to
see how I voted, how I talked in the Congress, what I tried to do, and their
endorsement of me means a great deal.
So, I am deeply grateful to each and all of them, and I am equally apprecia-
1581
