[347]
April 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
assistance to the U.S. footwear industry producing footwear covered by the
affirmative finding of February 20, 1976 of the United States International
Trade Commission (USITC) under section 201(d)(1) of the Trade Act. As
my decision does not provide import relief to that industry, I am setting forth
both the reasons why I have determined that import relief is not in the national
economic interest and other actions I am taking to help the footwear industry
and workers.
I have decided, considering the interests of both the American consumers
and producers, that expedited adjustment assistance is the most effective remedy
for the injury to the U.S. footwear industry and its employees as a result of
imports.
My decision was based upon my evaluation of the national economic interest.
A remedy involving import restraints would have lessened competition in the
shoe industry and resulted in higher shoe prices for American consumers at a
time when lowering the rate of inflation is essential. Footwear makes up 1
percent of the Consumer Price Index.
Import restraints would also have exposed industrial and agricultural trade
to compensatory import concessions or retaliation against U.S. exports. This
would have been detrimental to American jobs and damaged U.S. exports.
Adjustment assistance will benefit the many smaller enterprises which have
been seriously injured, whereas the USITC report casts grave doubt on import
relief as an effective remedy for these firms; import relief would disproportion-
ately benefit the 21 larger firms which produce 50 of domestic output, but
which have been found to be competitive with imports.
Adjustment assistance is consistent with the President's efforts to control in-
flation, including costs to all consumers, which import restrictions would raise.
The U.S. footwear industry is benefitting from a substantial increase in pro-
duction, shipments, and employment as a result of the economic recovery. Ad-
ditionally, a number of plants have reopened, order backlogs of domestic manu-
facturers have increased, and profitability has improved.
As the U.S. economy recovers from the recession, domestic production of non-
rubber footwear is rising significantly. In February, 1976 (the latest month for
which data are available) the output was 41,137,000 pairs. This is up from 40,-
985,000 in January, and is the highest monthly production figure since May,
1974. The monthly average for 1976 to date is 41,106,100; for the year 1974,
37,750,000; for 1975, 36,143,000.
U.S. employment in the industry, which has also been steadily declining over
recent years, also shows signs of picking up. The total average monthly em-
1136
