June 9
[585]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
former California Governor won almost 2 to 1 there. Doesn't that indicate that
where he is well-known, he is also electable?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think you could make the same argument in my be-
half in the State of Michigan and the same as far as the State of Ohio. So, it's an
argument that we look at from the broadest possible perspective. And when you
look at the recent poll that came out Monday-I think it was the Roper Poll—
it indicated that I was almost 2 to 1 a better candidate from the point of view of
the Republicans who were surveyed in that poll.
So, as you look at it from a 50-State point of view, there is no question that
many, many more Republicans believe that I am electable and should be the
choice of the convention in Kansas City.
Q. Mr. President, in view of the fact that Governor Carter now appears to be
the sure Democratic nominee, have you begun your process of selecting a Vice
President?
THE PRESIDENT. We haven't proceeded any further today than we have for the
last 2 or 3 weeks. We think we have a lot of excellent material and, as we move
further ahead, we will start discussing that in detail. But we haven't changed
our position today from a week ago in that regard.
Q. Mr. President, do you contemplate that some smaller States, or the obscure
States, will make the decision in the selection of a nominee for the party for
States that have not yet picked their delegations?
THE PRESIDENT. No State is obscure in my mind. Every one of them is very,
very vitally important, and we will consider them as such. So, we want all of the
delegates from all of the States that we can possibly get, and each one is equally
important with the other.
Q. Mr. President, as you have been campaigning you have been stressing
your record and your electability. At some point, could we expect you to tell the
American people specifically what you would do in your second term as
President in terms of programs and goals?
THE PRESIDENT. The goals would be primarily the achievements that we have
accomplished in the first 22 months-maintenance of peace, the need to increase
our prosperity and make it more permanent, and the restoration of confidence
and trust in the White House, which we also have made possible because of the
attitude of this administration. We will get into some of the details of legislative
programs, but that's premature at the present time.
Q. Mr. President, you say you are electable, but recent polls show you running
behind Carter. Now, are you concerned about this?
THE PRESIDENT. I think the polls as a whole indicate that I am electable.
1865
