May 2
[415]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
carry out their assigned mission, which is to deter aggression, to protect our
national security, and to maintain the peace. And the capability is in the Army,
the Navy, the Air Force, and Marines, and it is unfortunate that my opponent
takes just some of the figures, a part of them, and tends to distort the overall
picture.
But when you look at the overall picture and get the reports from the Joint
Chiefs of Staff, from the Secretary of Defense, I am convinced that our military
forces are fully adequate to carry out the mission which, as I described, was to
deter aggression, protect our national security, and maintain the peace.
Q. Mr. President, should you be elected to a second term and Secretary of
State Kissinger decides not to return, who would you appoint as his successor?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I wouldn't want to speculate on that. In the first place,
I know of no disposition on his part to leave the Cabinet.
Q. If Mr. Reagan seems to be gaining some growing support, do you plan
to change any of your stances on the issues?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't see why I should. When you look at the overall
record—and that is what I'm running on, I'm not running on campaign
promises. I'm running on the accomplishments of what we have done in the
last 21 months. As I indicated, we have taken this country out of the worst
economic recession in 40 years. We are at peace. We have employment up to
an alltime high. We've cut inflation 75 percent. That's a good record, and I
think it is supported by a majority of the American people.
Q. Do you still think you will have the delegates you need when you get
to Kansas City locked up before you go?
THE PRESIDENT. I think we will have enough delegates in Kansas City to win
Q. Before you get there?
THE PRESIDENT. We expect to win in Kansas City.
Thank you all very much.
NOTE: The exchange began at 7:02 p.m. at the Air National Guard Baer Field.
415
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session at a Public
Forum in Fort Wayne. May 2, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Bob Orr, Ambassador Ross Adair, Mayor Bob Arm-
strong, Jerry Heller, reverend clergy, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
It's great to be back in Indiana where the only thing taller than corn is the
1407
