[631]
July 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
by those who also dared to reach for the unknown. The discovery of this conti-
nent was unprecedented. It opened the eyes of mankind, showing them the
world was bigger than they had thought.
Our Nation's birth was unprecedented as well. A new form of government
was begun which would allow for change by future generations, yet secure basic
rights to men and women. The chance to earn property was given to those who
had never had property, education to those who had never been educated.
In the New World, Americans had to be handy. Ours was a do-it-yourself so-
ciety. Our fascination with machines to lighten labor and increase production
began very early. The practical problems of engineering and science required
education. The hard life attracted few learned scholars from Europe. Sometimes
Americans built their schools before their own rough cabins.
By the time of the Revolution, there were more colleges and universities in
America than in the British Isles. The men who wrote our Declaration of In-
dependence were probably the best educated rebels and revolutionaries history
had ever seen. When independence was won, the growth of free public educa-
tion in the United States amazed the world and quickened our pace in science
and technology.
Our Constitution specifically gave Congress power to promote science and
useful arts by rewarding inventors and authors with patents and copyrights.
While some governments are always fearful of what individuals may write or
discover, ours has always encouraged free inquiry, with results that speak for
themselves.
It was just a century ago, at Philadelphia's Centennial Exposition in 1876, that
Alexander Graham Bell first publicly demonstrated his telephone. Today, mil-
lions around the world can see and hear the highlights of history as they are
happening. Each new discovery, the result of each experiment, humbles us by
the dimension of the unknown. Our progress can be measured not only by the
extent of our knowledge but by increasing awareness of all that remains to be
discovered.
To keep reaching into the unknown, we must remain free. We must have
freedom to find and freedom to fail. Like our ancestors, we are always at the
edge of the unknown.
In the next 100 years, the American spirit of adventure can find out even
more about the forces of nature, how to harness them, preserve them; explore
the great riches of the oceans, still an uncharted frontier; turn space into a
partner for controlling pollution and instant communication to every corner
of the world; learn how to make our energy resources renewable and draw new
1940
