[505]
May 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
the Navy and the Air Force and Marines are fully sufficient to meet any assigned
missions that they have-to protect our national security, to deter aggression.
And let me assure you that the United States of America has the will to meet
any challenges. Our mission is not to bully, not to back off; our mission is to
go down the line of fairness and equity and strength and peace, and that's what
this administration stands for.
So, I thank you all for what you have done, and I know that in the next 72
hours you are going to maximize your effort. I have seen good teams lose a
ballgame in the last quarter. The PFC committee in the State of Oregon is not
going to lose in the last quarter; you are going to do better in the last quarter.
And that's the way we can make certain and positive that you show the way for
the west coast; that the momentum we have got in Michigan with a 65-percent
margin and 58-percent margin in Maryland is the kind of momentum we're
going to have right on through June 8 of this year.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:25 p.m. in the
West Ballroom at the Sheraton Portland Hotel. In
his opening remarks, he referred to Craig I.. Berk-
man, chairman, and Oregon State Senator Victor
Ativeh, honorary chairman, Oregon President Ford
Committer, and Representative Wendell Wyatt of
Oregon 1964-74.
505
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session in Portland With
Members of the World Affairs Council of Oregon.
May 22, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Edith, Mrs. Stoel, President Howard, Mr. Pamplin,
Liza Morrison, members and guests of the World Affairs Council:
It is a very great privilege and a tremendous honor for me to have the oppor-
tunity of participating in this program tonight. And one of the nicest things
that I find in traveling around the country is seeing, getting reacquainted with
very good and very fine friends, such as Edith Green. I think she set forth much
more articulately than I our relationship as Members of the House of Repersenta-
tives for 20 years.
But let me say something concerning her, if I might take a minute or two.
There was no person on the House floor who could speak more eloquently and
with more knowledge and more dedication in a wide variety of fields than
Edith Green. But she was the best when it came to the problems and the solutions
1644
