[398]
April 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
SMALL BUSINESS
[2] Q. Mr. President, I'm Walter Durham, president of Mesbic Financial
Corporation here in Dallas. We strongly believe in this private sector initia-
tive you're talking about. Our company is owned by 56 Dallas banks and cor-
porations, and we're in the business of helping small businesses. We've helped
a young man in a wheelchair expand his business with financial assistance.
We've helped create the fifth largest black-owned business here in Dallas. We've
helped create the first Spanish language radio station owned here in Dallas. We
have done a job that's been recognized nationally.
Senator Tower is well aware of what we are doing. Russ Perry sits on our
board; Dick Gallon of American Petrofena.
Unfortunately, we are regulated by the Small Business Administration, Mr.
President. And for 6 years those regulations have hampered our ability, and
in the last few months the trend has been worse.
I was on Capitol Hill 3 weeks ago testifying on Senator Tower's bill, which
the SBA opposed.
My question is simply this, sir: [Laughter] By way of background, for 18
months we have attempted to bring this to your attention through ordinary
channels, and I appreciate the opportunity to do it now. Can we visit with you,
or will you take some initiative to help us in the private sector operate efficiently
and economically to do this job and work within the confines of the free enter-
prise system and not be hampered by the Small Business Administration?
THE PRESIDENT. To be honest with you, I don't understand why SBA should
be hampering and hurting your efforts along the lines that you suggested. And
I must admit, I was not familiar with the request that you had to discuss this
matter with me.
I'm going to be spending all day with John Tower, and if Senator Tower's
bill achieves or accomplishes what you suggest, I certainly will talk in depth
with John Tower about it during the day. And I have nothing but the highest
respect for John Tower in the legislation he opposes or sponsors.
So, you will have an effective voice with me all day long, and we will find
out what's the problem, and we will try to do something about it.
MANDATORY RETIREMENT AGE
[3.] Q. Mr. President, I'm Helen Jane Wombolt from WFAA television.
On your 62d birthday I sent you a letter congratulating you for being such an
outstanding example for people who are in their sixties. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. You don't have to remind me of that. [Laughter]
1350
