[551]
June 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
GOVERNOR ROBERT D. RAY OF IOWA. Mr. President, I want to, first of all, thank
you for honoring our request. The New Coalition is comprised of the groups that
you mentioned—the Conference of Mayors, the National Conference of State
Legislators, the National Association of County Officers, the National League of
Cities, and the National Governors' Conference. And the people who have been
working in this area in these respective organizations asked if it would be pos-
sible to meet with you and the leadership of the House, because it is of great con-
cern to their membership and the people from these various organizations.
We are greatly concerned about the time-and, Mr. Speaker, that's good
news for us. And we are also concerned about the period of time that revenue
sharing will be continued, because 1 year, for instance, would just create havoc
and chaos for us who tried to administer State government and local govern-
ment.
So, these are the two main points that we would like to make. And we, of
course, are very appreciative of your leadership in this area. But likewise, we
had a good meeting with the leadership, the Democratic leadership on the Hill,
back in February, and we are most appreciative of that, also.
But that's the purpose of our desire to meet with you, and we certainly want
to say thank you for giving us the time and discussing with us. And if there is
any way we can impress upon people the importance of revenue sharing for us
who are in our States and in our cities and in our counties, we certainly would
like to do that. And these people represent those organizations. I am sure that if
we've got a few minutes they would like to have an opportunity to be heard.
THE PRESIDENT. I think it might be helpful to call on the Vice President. In
1972 he was in the forefront of getting the basic legislation enacted, and of
course, he is really the only representative of the Senate here today.
Mr. Vice President, would you wish to make any comment?
VICE PRESIDENT ROCKEFELLER. Well, first I can assure you if it's a tie vote, I will
vote favorably.
Secondly, you made most of the points, Mr. President. There are two, I think,
that are important. One is that the Federal Government is the large collector of
income tax revenues, and they are the fast-growing revenues. Many States don't
have income taxes, and they have real estate taxes and sales taxes which don't
grow as rapidly, so that the Federal Government has a revenue that's growing
more rapidly, and this is one reason.
The other reason is a philosophical one; namely, the concept of a Federal sys-
tem of Federal, State, and local governments. With the categorical grants now,
1,007 local government-that's State and local governments-are losing the kind
1778
