[329]
April 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
But true strength demands true responsibility and keeping the peace means
keeping our commitment to avoid constant and reckless confrontation, to
weigh our words carefully, knowing what hangs in the balance.
In my very first words after taking the solemn oath of office to preserve, pro-
tect, and defend the Constitution of the United States against all enemies, I
pledged myself to an uninterrupted and sincere search for peace. I said that
America will remain strong and united, but its strength will be dedicated to the
safety of the entire family of man as well as to our own precious freedom.
Today, on this solemn occasion, I repeat that pledge, to work for a world
where the foundation of peace is mutual self-interest instead of mutual terror,
to reduce world tensions through patience and perseverance, rather than in-
crease those tensions with hot words or rash acts. Where there is conflict, let us
try conciliation. Let us attempt to work out our differences on the negotiating
table rather than in a desperate duel that would leave the world in ashes.
You have placed your memorial at the base of a flowerbed. It is an appropriate
setting, for the flowers are a symbol of life. To honor the memory of those who
fought for freedom, you will keep those flowers blooming, and together we will
keep America strong, at peace, and forever free.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3.20 pm at the War
Memorial Plaza after unveiling a plaque com
memorating El Paso servicemen who gave their lives
in defense of their country.
In his opening remarks, he reterred to Senator
John G. Tower, chairman of the Texas President
Ford Committee. Mayor Don Henderson of El Paso
who presented the President with the Conquistador
Award and the key to the cats of E! Paso, Mayof
Raul Lezama of Ciudad Juarez, Mexko, Mrs Mag
dalena Barnes, pr. salent of the El Paso chapter of
the Gold Star Mothers, and Rev Charles Nichols,
pastor, North Gate Christian Church of E! Paso
1
330
Remarks on Arrival at Amarillo, Texas. April 10, 1976
Senator Tower, Mayor Drummond, my former colleague in the Congress, Bob
Price, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
It's great to be back in Amarillo. And the truth is, I have been here before.
And I like the people and this tremendous crowd here tonight on a Saturday
evening when I am sure you might have been doing some other things. It just is
great, and I thank you all from the very bottom of my heart. It is wonderful.
Thank you very, very much.
As I indicated, I have been to Amarillo on several occasions, and every time I
come back, I see a greater spirit, a more wonderful drive, and I love those kind
1094
