May 24
[519]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
protect our power, or project our power, I should say, from the sea onto the
land—wherever and whenever we must-and we must be capable of prevent-
ing our enemies from doing likewise.
When I shipped out of San Diego as a lieutenant in October of 1943, as a very
junior member of the crew of the U.S.S. Monterey, CVL-26, America was on
its way to becoming the strongest naval power the world had ever seen. We
emerged from World War II with an overwhelming Navy superiority.
In the next two decades, we replaced many ships in our fleet with more
modern ones, but much of it remained World War II vintage, and by the 1970's,
we were faced with the block obsolescence problem and a very serious one.
When I came into office 2 years ago, this threat to our seapower was one of the
most serious problems that I faced as President of the United States. I knew that
we had to maintain a naval force able to counter any adversary on the sea today.
At the same time, we had to lay the keels for the ships which would provide the
foundation of America's combat-ready fleet in the 1980's and the 1990's, as well
as beyond.
Our defense structure stands, I think most of us recognize, on four basic
premises. First, we must have the military might necessary to meet any challenge.
Second, our allies and adversaries must know that we, the United States, have
that power. Third, we must have the will to use our weapons if we must to
protect our national interest. Finally, all who consider or might consider aggres-
sion must know that we, the United States and 215 million Americans, have
the willpower and the respect for it.
The basis for our present naval superiority is broad and is built upon American
technological skills. Our aircraft carriers are unmatched, and we can bring
squadrons of our newest aircraft within range on land or on sea. Our submarines
are more advanced, and our expertise in the critical areas of amphibious warfare,
antisubmarine warfare, and fleet resupply are unsurpassed.
And perhaps a single deciding factor, one of special interest to you in the
Navy League, is the quality and the caliber of the men and women of the
Navy, as well as in the Marine Corps. Their training, their professionalism, their
experience are unmatched. I know and admire their dedication to duty. Both
our allies as well as our adversaries are fully aware of our tremendous naval
power.
We must, however, commit ourselves fully to maintaining the superiority
of American seapower. Ever since I became President, I have fought to reverse
a dangerous trend in the Congress of the United States toward giving defense
a smaller and smaller slice of our total Federal budget.
1693
