May 24
[516]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
of business be short and comprehensive." Like America, that advice is about
200 years old, but it's still pretty good advice in 1976.
First, let me compliment all of you on the phenomenal progress your indus-
try has made over the years. You have grown from some 75 shopping centers
in 1949 to more than 16,000 in 1976. You've shared in America's rising postwar
prosperity, and you have filled a very major need for America's growing sub-
urban population.
Twenty-one months ago, America's prosperity and economic strength were
threatened by a chilling combination of recession and inflation. Some of Amer-
ica's leading economists and politicians thought it best to impose wage and
price controls to deal with America's economic problems. Others insisted that
we spend massive amounts of Federal dollars to stimulate the economy, despite
the serious danger of feeding an already tragic inflation.
I decided that the way to real recovery and enduring prosperity in America
was not through government quick fixes. It has never worked, and it won't
work. I had faith that America would work its way out of its economic difficul-
ties, rather than trying to spend its way out.
I proposed and the Congress accepted a major tax cut for individuals and
tax incentives for business expansion and job production so that we could get
the great free enterprise system in America working at full speed again. We
also began a comprehensive effort to restore the confidence of the American
people, a confidence in themselves, in their government, in their future. This
effort was absolutely essential to restoring economic confidence of the consumer,
a very key element in our economic recovery.
I think the record shows that these policies have been very successful.
America today is in the midst of a strong and surging economic recovery, and
I compliment the American people for their wisdom, their forthrightness, and
their success.
The real gross national product rose during the first quarter of this year at
an annual rate of 8.5 percent—far, far above the most optimistic predictions of a
few months ago, in dollars and cents. That means the value of America's out-
put of goods and services rose at an annual rate of almost $200 billion, and even
here in Las Vegas, that's not a bad jackpot. [Laughter]
The amount of money people have to spend after taxes and other deductions
are taken from their paychecks, what the economists call real spendable income,
has increased by $100 billion in the past year. Farm income is at an alltime high,
and so is farm production.
1683
