April 9
[321]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
actually had a decrease. So a year go, when I submitted in January the biggest
military budget in the history of the United States, we would have reversed
that trend.
Well, in that 7-year span, defense had gone from 42 percent to 24 percent, and
domestic programs went from 31 and 32 percent up to 50 percent or better. Now,
that trend in both cases had to stop. And when I submitted the budget a year
ago, it would have turned up the percentage for defense. Unfortunately, the
Congress cut $7.5 billion out of it, so it nullified what I tried to do to get defense
having a larger share.
Now, in January of this year, I submitted the biggest peacetime-the biggest
budget for the Defense Department in the history of the United States-$114.4
billion with increases for strategic arms, conventional arms, research and devel-
opment, et cetera, which again is an attempt to get the share of the Federal
dollar in a greater degree for the Defense Department. It would take it up to
almost 26 percent.
Now, fortunately, so far it looks like the pressure we put on the Congress is
bringing some results, because I don't think Congress this year is going to slash
away at it as they did last year. So, if they don't, we will have the kind of a
Defense Department program that will keep us unsurpassed now and will keep
us unsurpassed in the future.
What we are trying to do is to upgrade all of our hardware—and it is a regu-
lar process—it calls for the B-1 being substituted for the B-52. It includes the
Trident submarine being substituted for the Polaris and the Poseidon. It pro-
vides the M-60 tank to replace the M-48. It is a constant process of upgrading
our military equipment. And with the budget that we submitted for the next
fiscal year, we will be unsurpassed at the present and will continue to be
unsurpassed.
Now I know some questions have been raised about whether we are as strong
as the Russians. The allegation is made that they have 4 million people in the
army or their military forces, and we have 2.1 million. The problems are a little
different. The Soviet Union has a thousand-mile or more border with the
People's Republic of China, and they have at least half of their forces on that
border. We, the United States, have friendly relations with the Canadians on
the one hand and the Mexicans on another. So, we don't have to have half of
our military forces on either the northern or the southern border.
And, in addition, the Soviet Union has to face the NATO forces to the west,
so they have two borders that they have to man fully, completely, totally. So,
1051
