[410]
April 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
410
Memorandum to the Special Representative for Trade
Negotiations on Adjustment Assistance for the Stainless Steel
Flatware Industry. April 30, 1976
PURSUANT to Section 202(b)(1) of the Trade Act of 1974 (P.L. 93-618, 88
Stat. 1978), I have determined the action I will take with respect to the report
of the United States International Trade Commission (USITC) dated March 1,
1976, concerning the results of its investigation of a petition for import relief
filed by the Stainless Steel Flatware Manufacturers Association.
I have determined that expedited adjustment assistance is the most effective
remedy for the injury suffered by the domestic stainless steel flatware industry
and its employees. I have determined that provision of import relief is not in
the national economic interest of the United States.
The stainless steel flatware industry is currently receiving special import pro-
tection in the form of five-year tariff rate quota, which went into effect in 1971.
Prior thereto, the industry received escape clause tariff protection from 1959 to
1967. The purpose of such special measures is to increase the amount of protec-
tion for a limited period during which the domestic industry is to make adjust-
ments necessary to compete successfully with imports. The present tariff rate
quota will remain in effect through September 30, 1976.
Under the existing level of special protection, some firms have made adjust-
ments enabling them to meet foreign competition and one of the two largest
producers opposes continuation of special protection. While certain others.
among the companies that requested greater tariff relief have shown low profits
or losses, they account for a much smaller share of the industry's total output
and employment. Additional import relief would thus give unnecessary pro-
tection to firms that account for a large part of domestic output. Adjustment
assistance, on the other hand, will focus on the specific problems of individual
firms and groups of workers that need help, without increasing the burden on
restaurants, households, and other users.
New import restraints would also have exposed U.S. industry and agriculture
to claims for compensatory import concessions or retaliation against U.S.
exports to the detriment of American jobs and exports.
With regard to the effect of import restraints on the international economic
interests of the United States, which I am required to consider under the Trade
Act of 1974, I have concluded that such restraints would be contrary to the
1402
