April 21
[349]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Such a record fully deserves the honor all of us pay him today. It is a record
that symbolizes the best of America, for General Marshall personified the
strength, the dignity, the compassion, the eagerness for challenge, and the pur-
suit of peace which are the hallmarks of the American experience. It is a record
beautifully presented and fittingly preserved in this great hall.
Sir Winston Churchill once said of General Marshall that succeeding genera-
tions must not be allowed to forget his achievements and his example. Having
seen this corridor today, having recalled with new admiration and affection his
half century of service, none of us need doubt that George C. Marshall's long and
important career in American history will endure and inspire his countrymen
for many, many generations to come.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:58 p.m. at the
Pentagon. In his opening remarks, he referred to
Martin R. Hoffmann, Secretary of the Army, Ells-
worth Bunker, Ambassador at Large, William P.
Clements, Jr., Deputy Secretary of Defense,
Frederick C. Weyand, Chief of Staff, U.S. Army,
and George M. Elsey, president of the American
National Red Cross.
349
Remarks to the 85th Continental Congress of the
Daughters of the American Revolution. April 21, 1976
Thank you very much Mrs. Smith, members and guests of the Daughters of
the American Revolution:
It's a very great honor and a tremendous privilege for me to meet with you
again in this historic hall. In this Bicentennial Year we have a very special reason
for rededication of the ideals and to the principles that motivated American
patriots in 1776.
I am very proud that my mother was a very active and dedicated member of
the Sophie de Marsac Campau Chapter of the Daughters of the American Revo-
lution. The principles of loyalty and love of this country which she cultivated in
her children are just as important today as they were throughout her lifetime.
And they will continue to be important throughout our third century of freedom
in America.
The patriots of 1776-men like George Washington and Patrick Henry—did
not mince words nor will I, 200 years later, in reporting to you on a matter of
growing national concern.
Over the past several weeks, as the 1976 political campaigns have begun to
heat up, more and more attention has focused on the issue of America's military
1139
