[385]
April 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
But, I'm also impressed with the way that you have handled your growth.
Houston has kept its budget under control by wise leadership and good man-
agement, and I congratulate you and your city officials. But may I express to all
of you my deep appreciation for the wonderful support that your senior Senator,
John Tower, has given me, but more important to all of you, the wonderful
job that he has done for each and every one of you in the great State of Texas.
Let me say as a result of the wise management and the good, wise way in
which all of you have participated, the cost of living here in the city of Houston
is one of the lowest of any major cities, and I am told-and this is something
that you should be very, very proud of—that jobs are available for almost every-
body who wants one in the city of Houston. Congratulations.
You have got this enviable record here in Houston, but now let me say as
we look at the entire United States, we have made very real and tremendous
progress in returning all America to prosperity. We are on the right road, and
we are going to stay there.
When I first took office, America was entering its worst recession in 40 years.
Inflation was running at an annual rate of 12 percent. Last year the unemploy
ment rate was almost 9 percent, but now the situation has dramatically changed
for the better.
The Consumer Price Index, our leading inflation indicator, reported a cut in
the annual rate of inflation from 12 percent a year ago to less than 3 percent
for the first quarter of calendar year 1976. That's a reduction of 75 percent, and
that's really putting the brakes on inflation, and we're going to try to do a better
and better in the months ahead.
Despite the gloomy forecasts of those doomsayers of a few months ago, that
unemployment would reach the figure of some 10 percent, we have reduced
unemployment steadily and surely, and we're going to keep on reducing it.
In the past year alone, we have added more than 2,600,000 more jobs in Amer-
ica, and the gross national product is increasing ahead of even our own projec-
tions. We're doing very, very well, and all of you should be proud of it.
Obviously, we still have a lot of work ahead of us to provide more jobs and
to reduce the cost of living, but we're on the way.
I'm very proud of the progress we have made under my administration, and
I want to continue that record of active, effective action for the American tax-
payer, to hold down unnecessary Government spending, which has to be fi-
nanced out of your tax dollars.
I think most of you know-and my good friend John Tower reminded me,
as well as you I have not hesitated to use the Presidential veto. And so far I
1288
