July 7
[656]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
in many ways more complex, than those of the past. Yet I am confident that
the democracies, working together, can and will proceed with courage and dedi-
cation to do as well as those first stalwart Englishmen who settled here, and
their descendants who forged an independent nation, will ultimately and
definitely prevail.
In a changing world, our continuing relationship is a reassuring symbol of
our determination to continue the defense of freedom. Your Bicentennial visit
and the many, many generous gifts from the British people are vivid reminders
of the continuing vitality of the friendship and our partnership in a noble
endeavor.
Your Majesty, as we celebrate our past, we also look forward with confidence
to working for a better life for all humanity. In our third century, I know that
the United Kingdom will be on our side and the United States will be on your
side.
Your Royal Highness, ladies and gentlemen—the Queen.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:47 p.m. in the
Rose Garden at the White House. Queen Elizabeth
II responded as follows:
Mr. President, thank you for your welcome and
for your gracious words tonight. We are deeply
grateful for having been invited to visit the United
States in the main week of your Bicentenary. It was
a generous gesture and apposite. After all, nobody
can say that what happened on the Fourth of July,
1776, was not very much a bilateral affair between
us. [Laughter] We were indeed happy to accept
your invitation.
Two hundred years ago this week, America de-
clared its independence from Britain, and for several
years the English-speaking world was at war with
itself, and families on both sides of the ocean were
deeply divided.
So, too, was the British Parliament, whose great-
est orators of the time denounced the measures
which provoked the war and the separation. But
when Britain eventually recognized the independence
of the United States of America, a new chapter in
history opened.
In the summer of 1785, John Adams, America's
first envoy to the Court of St. James, paid his first
call on King George III. My ancestor said to him, in
well-known words which are worth repeating, "I
was the last man in the Kingdom to consent to the
separation, but the separation having been made, I
have always said, as I say now, that I would be the
first to meet the friendship of the United States as
an independent power."
Mr. President, history is not a fairy tale. Despite
the good intentions, hostility soon broke out be-
tween us and even burst into this house. [Laughter]
But these early quarrels are long buried. What is
more important is that our shared language, tradi-
tions, and history have given us a common vision of
what is right and just.
Both our peoples believe in the worth of the in-
dividual and the family, in freedom of religion and
expression, and the right to change a government
by the ballot box rather than the gun-perhaps, the
best definition of democracy. That is why time and
time again, in the testing days of war and the con-
structive years of peace, we have stood together on
the things that matter.
The world has changed a great deal since that
Declaration was signed in Independence Hall 200
years ago. Over the generations, the British people
have watched with admiration-and can I say with
pride-how you, with ingenuity and resource, first
peopled and settled the continent and then under-
took a world role which has brought great and last-
ing benefits to humanity.
Britain, too, has undergone many changes. The
British Empire, with imagination and goodwill, has
been transformed into a Commonwealth of nations.
And in this age, when the relationship between the
developed and the developing countries is a central
issue, I have no doubt that this Commonwealth link
of friendship and understanding is of true value.
At home in recent years, Britain has sought to en-
sure that everyone has the opportunity for self-ful-
fillment and a real stake in the future development
and prosperity of the country. She is a country
much concerned about things that matter-the crea-
tion of the necessary wealth to support a prosperous
society, the preservation of a clean and healthy en-
1987
