[383]
April 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
I will sign that bill, when Congress hadn't finalized the thing? I'm not sus-
picious but-[laughter]—if I said I would sign the conference report or the
amendments to the law, they could have gone back up there and changed it,
and I would have looked a little silly. I learned a long time ago, as a lawyer,
that you better read the fine print and that's just as true of the fine print that
Congress sends down to the Oval Office as it was when I was signing an in-
surance policy.
And so, until I see that legislation in its final form-and they probably won't
get it down to the White House until the latter part of this week—I am not
going to commit to anything.
I urged them again yesterday that they simply extend the
life and make it
constitutional of the Federal Election Commission. And the bill that they had
as a tentative agreement required 4 pages to do that job, and then they added
20 more pages of the kind of amendments that you're talking about. And they
could have changed words, phrases, paragraphs, the whole thing. And until
I see the fine print in black and white passed by both the House and the Senate,
I am going to reserve judgment, because we might get a bill I could sign. On
the other hand, we might get a bill that I would veto. And until the decision is
made by the Congress, I am not in a position to make any commitment. I don't
think any one of you would either dealing with this Congress.
Q. Certainly. What about the severe restrictions, Mr. President? If legisla-
tion that comes in front of you does contain these severe restrictions, what would
be your attitude toward the bill?
THE PRESIDENT. We have to make sure that the kind of problems you are
presenting are not included in that legislation. Now, in talking with the Mem-
bers of the House and Senate who were in that conference committee yester-
day, their description of those provisions does not coincide precisely with the
description that you're giving them. And that's why in a complicated, contro-
versial area like this, I know you in good faith have gotten a report of what
was in there.
These people were telling me what was in there, and there was a difference
of opinion, actually, between the House Members and the Senate Members as
to what the content was. So, I just urge you that I want equity in that bill. I
didn't want any of these provisions. I just wanted a simple extension of the
reconstitution of the Election Commission.
I'm against what you appear to be saying is in that conference report, but
there are so many versions and variations of what was included, I think I can
1282
