[324]
April 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
they are accumulative, then there is no question whatsoever that in this kind
of race particularly, and even in the runoff in November, what you do every-
day, what you do a part of the day, does make a difference.
So, I thank you, and it is a very significant factor in this contest where I think
we are coming from behind. But as I said a moment ago, we might surprise some
people who are a little overconfident, I suspect.
Let me tell you a couple of things that you might say when you call individuals
and they ask the question, which is very legitimate in this political arena in
which we operate: "Why should I be for President Ford?" Let me tell you what
I would say and what Betty has said in New Hampshire, Florida, and elsewhere,
and what our children say when they are asked that question, and they are re-
peatedly interrogated concerning it.
Number one, we inherited at the time I became President the most uncertain
and most potentially devastating economic situation in the history of the coun-
try in the last 40 years. Inflation was 12 percent or more. We have cut it back to
6 percent or less. Unemployment was about to soar and employment was about
to plummet. And through sound, constructive economic plans and programs
that put the focus on the private sector rather than loading up the Federal pay-
roll, we now have everything reversed with all things that are supposed to go
up, going up-employment, retail sales, automobile sales, industrial production,
everything in the economic field is going up.
And at the same time everything that is supposed to be going down is going
down. The rate of inflation is in the right direction, downward. The unemploy-
ment figures are also down. And one statistic that I found very convincing in
talking to people is that a year ago just about now our unemployment was 8.9
percent, and in that span of time from last March or April, we have regained
2,600,000 jobs. And today, or in the month of March, we achieved a total employ-
ment of 86,700,000 Americans, the highest number of Americans who have
ever worked in our work force in this country.
We have an alltime record, so we are doing very, very well. And we are on
the way to making it not only increasingly prosperous but I think on a more
permanent basis.
One other question you will be asked: "Well, what is the President doing
about getting the Government out of my business or out of my hair?" what-
ever they might say.
In the first place, every department of the Federal Government has been told
that they must go through every one of their regulations, they must analyze every
1064
