[349]
April 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
strength. Frankly, I presume this has happened because a grab bag of other
issues have tried and failed. However, this should not be a partisan discussion.
On national defense matters, some of my supporters are Democrats and some of
my critics are Republicans. Nevertheless, politics does have a way of confusing
the extremely complex issues of national security. This is particularly evident
every 4 years when we have a Presidential election campaign.
I welcome the emergence of this debate because during the next 4 years many
crucial decisions must be made about our Armed Forces, decisions that will affect
our freedoms until the end of this century and beyond. Nothing is more vital to
our individual, personal security than the security of our Nation.
At the same time, the gravity of this subject demands that it be addressed
honestly, factually, and fairly. Unfortunately, too much of the debate so far has
been cast in exaggerated rhetoric that tends to mislead and confuse, not to
enlighten and to clarify.
I believe the American people, as well as our friends and adversaries abroad,
have too much common sense to fall for oversimplifications, but as your Presi-
dent and as Commander in Chief, I do have a responsibility to set the record
straight. And, obviously, it is time for a little straight talk-and I will give it to
you this morning.
Recent charges that the United States is in a position of military inferiority,
that we have accepted Soviet world domination are complete and utter nonsense.
If there is any single standard which has guided my years in public service it has
been this: The freedom and security of the United States of America must always
be preserved. America is the greatest nation on Earth and we will keep it that
way.
I know the DAR's record on national defense and you know mine. They are
virtually identical. My knowledge, my concern, my record in support of a strong
national defense does not go back merely a few days, a few weeks, or even a few
months, but all the way back to 1949 when I first went to the Congress. For 25
years in the Congress I stood for, I spoke for, and I voted for a strong national
defense.
For 14 years I served on the House Committee on Appropriations that cach
year examined in great detail every one of the programs and then provided the
appropriations for the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, and Marines. And always,
in those years, my stance was on the side of strength for America.
During the years before I became Vice President, as minority leader of the
House of Representatives, I fought openly and hard year after year for the
maximum military strength recommended, whether by a Republican President
1140
