[369]
April 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
[At this point, Gov. James E. Holshouser, Jr., of North Carolina, read Mr. Kiser's response as follows.]
"Mr. President, thank you so very much for inviting me and my friends here
today. You will readily see that I could have accomplished nothing without the
help and support of countless individuals and organizations. Claude Myer, John
Dalrymple, and the North Carolina Division of Vocational Rehabilitation have
not only aided in every way they could but have coordinated the efforts of others.
The Federal-State Vocational Rehabilitation Program is working. Mrs. Ruth
Ann Thompson, my administrative assistant, deserves a lion's share of the credit.
As a token of my deep appreciation, I would like to share a copy of my book
with you. Should you have a chance to read it, you will understand better what
this award means to me.
In order to prevent my excommunication, please accept greetings from my
church, Knollwood Baptist, in Winston-Salem, with which I believe you are
familiar.
Gratefully, Bill Kiser."
NOTE: The President spoke at 12.10 p.m. in the Rose Garden at the White House
370
Statement Urging Congressional Action on Legislation To
Reconstitute the Federal Election Commission.
April 27, 1976
ON OCTOBER 15, 1974, I signed into law the Federal Election Campaign Act
Amendments of 1974, which made far-reaching changes in the laws affecting
Federal elections in election campaign practices. This law created the Federal
Election Commission to administer and enforce a comprehensive regulatory
scheme for Federal campaigns.
On January 30, 1976, the United States Supreme Court ruled that certain fea-
tures of the new law were unconstitutional. The Court allowed a total of 50 days
to "afford Congress an opportunity to reconstitute the Commission by law.”
On February 16, I submitted legislation to reconstitute the Commission and
urged Congress to enact quickly this required change so it could continue to op-
erate through the 1976 election. This is the simple and fair thing to do. Instead,
Congress has already spent over 70 days in its attempt to amend the existing law
in many unnecessary areas.
1226
