April 23
[362]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
who are here tonight and to participate in a very small way in the presentation of
the Freedom Foundation's awards.
The very high standards of responsible citizenship which the Freedom Foun-
dation promotes is well represented by the 16 award winners we honor here
tonight. I commend each of the award winners for having earned this very
prestigious recognition and commendation.
As Americans, we all have a very solemn opportunity and duty to preserve,
to protect, and to defend the liberties which are our American birthright. This
involves more than mighty armies, mighty navies, mighty air forces—although
our military strength must never be in doubt.
The preservation of freedom also requires of us an active participation in the
great adventure of self-government. As we enter this third century of America's
independence, it is my hope that each and every one of us will renew our strong
commitment to the system of government laid out with great care and paid
for at a very great cost by our forebears.
May we also quicken our interest in the work of that government and in the
progress of our people and take a much more personal stake in the future of
the nation that each and every one of us loves. This is the example so forcefully
set by the recipients of this award here tonight.
I join you in congratulating each and every one of them, and I have enjoyed
immensely this short but wonderful opportunity to participate in this wonder-
ful occasion. I wish all of you the very best, and I commend you and congratu-
late you for the contribution that you have made to a better America.
Thank you very, very kindly.
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:37 p.m. in the Grand
Ballroom at the Marriott Perimeter Center. In his
opening remarks, he referred to Col. Quincy Collins,
USAF (ret.), and Mrs. Barbara Fain, president of
the Atlanta chapter of the Freedom Foundation.
362
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session at a Public
Forum in Atlanta. April 23, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Mr. Huff, Mr. Snoderly, distinguished guests, stu-
dents, faculty, and friends of the Peachtree High School:
It is a great honor and a very high privilege for me to have the opportunity to
be back in Georgia. And I obviously appreciate very, very much the wonderful
and warm and cordial welcome here at Peachtree High School, the home of the
red, white, and blue Fighting Patriots.
1191
