June 3
[552]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
of flexibility which they have had traditionally to be responsive to their own con-
stituents. They are bound by legislative regulations, administrative regulations
on these hundreds and hundreds of programs, so that that flexibility is lost.
Revenue sharing gets around that and does give flexibility, which I think is
part of our tradition as a form of government. So, I think it's tremendously im-
portant to have this. I think the experiment has been extremely useful, and I
am delighted with what everyone here is doing to reenact this legislation.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:55 p.m. in the State Dining Room at the White House.
552
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session With Reporters
Following a Meeting on General Revenue Sharing. June 3, 1976
I THOUGHT it would be helpful to give you a report in part on the meeting
that we held this afternoon. Many of you were there at the outset. The meeting,
of course, was called, as I indicated, at the request of the New Coalition, com-
posed of the Governors, the city officials, county officials, and others in order to
convince the Members of the House of Representatives on both sides of the aisle,
the need and necessity for general revenue sharing.
The meeting did indicate that the legislation would be on the floor of the
House most likely next week. There are some serious differences of opinion,
differences that I hope can be worked out. The question was asked: Would I
support the bill that came out of the full Committee of [on] Government Opera-
tions? And I said it was drastically different than the legislation I had recom-
mended, and I would have to reserve judgment as to whether or not I would
sign it, depending of course on what the final version was.
It is a very serious matter that involves local services. It involves State taxation
and local taxation. I was pleased to be on the side of those who have faith and
trust in the Governors of our various States, the mayors of our cities, and the
county officials. Whether they are Democratic or Republican, I think they can
do a good job. It is my hope and trust that the Congress will respond with good
legislation.
Bob, do you want to add anything?
GOVERNOR ROBERT D. RAY OF IOWA. I might just add to what the President
said that we were very pleased that the President responded as he did and
1779
