July 1
[633]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
meaning to our life as a nation. Let us now welcome a century in which we give
new meaning to our lives as individuals. Let us look inside ourselves to unleash
the God-given treasures stored within. And let us look outside ourselves to the
needs of our families, our friends, our communities, our Nation, and our moral
and spiritual consciousness.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:13 p.m. in Stat-
uary Hall at the Capitol. In his opening remarks,
he referred to Senators Mike Mansfield of Montana,
Hugh Scott of Pennsylvania, and Edward W. Brooke
of Massachusetts, and Representative Lindy (Mrs.
Hale) Boggs of Louisiana.
633
Special Message to the Congress on a Proposed Appropriations
Rescission for the Office of Drug Abuse Policy. July 1, 1976
To the Congress of the United States:
In accordance with the Impoundment Control Act of 1974, I herewith propose
rescission of $250,000 provided in the Second Supplemental Appropriations Act,
1976, for establishment of the Office of Drug Abuse Policy (ODAP) in the Ex-
ecutive Office of the President. When I signed into law P.L. 94-237, the “Drug
Abuse Office and Treatment Act Amendments of 1976" which extended neces-
sary appropriation authorizations for Federal drug abuse prevention and treat-
ment programs, I expressed my opposition to establishing ODAP. I stated that
"I thoroughly agree with the position of the Congress on the importance of a
well coordinated Federal drug abuse program. I have consistently held, however,
that such coordination can best be carried out by existing departments and agen-
cies, without an additional agency for that purpose." Accordingly, I am recom-
mending to the Congress that it rescind the $250,000 appropriated for ODAP.
This new Office is a relatively minor item in terms of dollars and staff size. The
Director of ODAP is to "make recommendations to the President with respect
to . . . drug abuse functions and . . . (to) coordinate the performance of such
functions by Federal departments and agencies." ODAP represents an unneces-
sary expense for the taxpayer and adds to the Federal bureaucracy. Further-
more, I believe the establishment of this Office is an encroachment on my re-
sponsibilities as Chief Executive to organize the Executive Office of the Presi-
dent to carry out, as effectively as possible, the programs and laws which are
established by Congress.
Since I have taken office, it has been my consistent objective to place the
1943
