[505]
May 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
have read to the effect that the new Lebanese Government has asked that the
French send in a very limited force to help stabilize the situation until a central
government can be reestablished. Whether that will take place or not, I can't
tell you. But we have a new President, we are hoping that they can establish
a viable central government, that the outside forces will stay out.
I could go on with the complexities because you have the Egyptians favoring
one element of the Palestinians and the Syrians favoring another element of
the Palestinians, and you have the Israelis involved indirectly. It is the most
complex situation today I think in the world. But slowly but surely we're mak
ing-I don't mean we alone-but substantial headway is being made. And I
just hope that with patience and perseverence we can sort it all out and restore
Lebanon to the great role that it had for a good many years.
Q. Mr. President, my name is not important, but my question is. What will
be the role of covert intelligence operations in U.S. foreign policy in the future?
THE PRESIDENT. I believe under the reorganization of the intelligence com-
munity, which includes the CIA, the Defense Intelligence Agency, and any
other intelligence departments in our Government, the reorganization that I
instituted to guarantee the protection of individual rights, and that there will be
a central control of the intelligence community with a group of three that will
have supervisory responsibilities for any criticisms or any objections, will take
care of the overall intelligence operations. That's on the affirmative side.
Now, you asked the question, in effect, should the United States undertake
any covert operations. In my opinion yes, if it involves our national security.
Q. Thank you, Mr. President. We have time for one more question.
Q. Mr. President, may I ask you to state your stand, please, on the contro-
versial Panama Canal issue?
THE PRESIDENT. Following the riots that resulted in 24 deaths in December of
1964, where 20 Panamanians and 4 Americans were killed, President Johnson
undertook negotiations with the Government of Panama to see what could be
done to negotiate a long-term treaty that would involve, during the terms of the
treaty, the United States having defense responsibilities and the right to main-
tain and operate the canal. Those negotiations continued under President John-
son during his term of office and likewise under President Nixon. They are still
continuing.
I believe that the United States should negotiate an affirmative agreement that
will make certain that our national interests are protected and that we have the
right of free access to the Panama Canal.
Now, there are some who say we should break off negotiations. I think that
1654
