[535]
May 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
Minister that this is in fact about to happen, and has there been any contact,
direct or indirect, between Washington and Havana on this subject?
The President. As I understand the message that was from Mr. Castro to
Prime Minister Palme in Sweden, was that it went from Havana to Moscow to
Sweden. I think that is somewhat significant. It does indicate that there is a
planned withdrawal of some 200 per week, as I recall the figure. That is progress.
We are encouraged, but we have had no direct communication as far as any
such movement by Cubans out of Angola.
I hope that that trend will be accelerated. That would be even more encourag-
ing. But as far as any direct communication, we have had none.
Q. Does the Cuban withdrawal carry with it any implied intent on the part
of the U.S. to recognize the MPLA?
THE PRESIDENT. No. At this stage, certainly not.
PRESIDENT FORD'S PROSPECTS FOR A FIRST-BALLOT NOMINATION
[7.] Q. Mr. President, this morning you said that it would still be politically
possible to win the nomination on the first ballot if you lost California. Could
you explain how that is realistic?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, if we look at the number of delegates we have at the
present time and the number we would expect to get from the remaining pri-
maries plus the progress that we anticipate in the various States where they pick
their delegates by State conventions, it is our belief that the momentum that
started with Maryland and Michigan and kept through Pennsylvania and Ohio
and certainly was good for us yesterday, we think with that momentum we can
add up to about 1,130 or more.
Q. But wouldn't the California win by Governor Reagan still give him the
momentum?
THE PRESIDENT. I Would doubt it because we expect to do well in the great
State of Ohio, and we certainly expect to do well in New Jersey. And those two
primaries come the same day that the vote comes in California.
REPUBLICAN VICE-PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE
[8.] Q. Mr. President, in view of the fact that Mr. Reagan will come to the
convention in August with a delegate total very close to your own, do you feel
that if you receive the nomination there may be very grave and perhaps irre-
sistible pressure on you to accept Governor Reagan as your running mate?
THE PRESIDENT. I have personally never excluded any Republican for consider-
ation as a Vice-Presidential candidate. But, as I am sure you recognize, Mr. Rea-
1750
