May 23
[507]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
I am wondering what your stand as President would be if this issue comes before
Congress again?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, when I was in the Congress, I supported the present
arrangement. And unless the evidence is overwhelming to the contrary, I would
support it in the future.
Q. The latest delegate count puts you ahead-
The President. That's very encouraging news. We had a good day yester-
day. I thing the momentum has turned very directly on our side. And we hope
to keep the bandwagon rolling so we can have a first ballot victory in Kansas
City.
Q.
true?
-yet there are reports that you are deemphasizing in California. Is that
The President. Not at all. I'm going to spend 2½ days in California. We are
going to make a very major effort in California.
Q. Mr. President, in your plan to cut away 40 years of redtape—you men-
tioned industrialists and farmers—how long do you think it's going to take
for your plan to help the little fellow with the corner grocery or the average
small businessman in a town the size of those here in Pendleton?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, as we make an overall approach to the deregulation on
a broad scale, and as we try in the next 4 years with the proposal that I have
submitted to the Congress, I think you can see some real progress. It will take
the cooperation of the Congress. We expect to get it, because I think the Ameri-
can people want it.
Q. Ronald Reagan says the attitude of the Attorney General apparently sig-
nifies some sort of change in attitude of the administration toward busing. What
is the attitude now of your administration toward busing?
THE PRESIDENT. There is no change in my attitude. I have been totally op-
posed to court-ordered, forced busing to achieve racial balance, because that is
not the right way to get quality education. The Attorney General is investigat-
ing the possibility of filing an amicus curiae proceeding, as far as the Supreme
Court is concerned. He will make the decision, if the facts justify it, and he
will report to me when he has made that decision.
But the basic attitude of the Ford administration is the same as it has been
during my tenure in the Congress and in the White House. Quality education
is not achieved by court-ordered forced busing.
Q. Mr. Reagan hit your agriculture policy very hard in his visit here yester-
day. He said we must return to a free market system in agriculture.
1659
