[348]
April 20
Public Papers of the Presidents
This occasion, as I have noted, has been filled with personal remembrances
of the general which reveal his warm humanity, his integrity, his great leader-
ship abilities and, above all, his total dedication to the service of his country.
The Nation's memories of General Marshall span the gulf between war and
peace. We remember him for building a force that numbered less than 2000
officers and men shortly before World War II into the greatest fighting army in
the history of the world in very short order. As General Marshall told the Nation
as we prepared for global war, "If we are strong enough, peace, democracy and
our American way of life should be the rewards."
At the end of World War II, the Army and the Air Corps numbered more
than 8 million and had no equal on any battlefield on the face of the Earth.
Today, we know that the military strength and preparedness which General
Marshall so forcefully advocated are still absolutely essential to deter aggression,
to keep the peace, and to protect our national security.
But we also know it is our solemn duty to make the most of peace as a con-
structive atmosphere for human progress and human freedom. In this duty, as
all Americans know, George C. Marshall did not fail. After the war his name
became synonymous with one of the greatest peaceful enterprises in human
history, the Marshall plan.
As a young Congressman from Michigan coming to Washington with the
elections of 1948, I was very favorably impressed with and a strong supporter of
this compassionate and farsighted American program for rebuilding a continent
ravished by war. I was equally impressed with the bipartisan nature of that
effort.
One of the great leaders of that bipartisan team is the man who first inspired
me to run for public office-Senator Arthur Vandenberg of Michigan, then
chairman of the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations. Senator Vandenberg
said politics stopped at the water's edge. But the more accurate statement was that
postwar statesmen like Marshall and Vandenberg recognized the need to unite
in a single, cohesive foreign policy. From that recognition we gained unity, in
unity strength, and from strength great success.
History has already recorded that both the challenges to peace and the chal-
lenges of peace were well met by the man we honor today, and we could ask no
better example as we face similar challenges today. For more than half a century,
as a cadet at the Virginia Military Institute, as an Army officer and Chief of
Staff, the Secretary of State, as President of the American National Red Cross,
and as Secretary of Defense, General George C. Marshall served his country with
unswerving devotion and uncommon ability.
1138
