[577]
June 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
important and why I think you ought to vote for President Ford for the Republi-
can nomination, so he can win in November. Let me take just a minute.
In August of 1974-refresh your memory-this country was in terrible trouble.
The American people had lost faith and confidence in the White House itself.
We were suffering inflation of over 12 percent. We were on the brink of the
worst economic recession in 40 years. Unemployment was going up and jobs
were going down.
At the same time, on the international front, our allies were uncertain and
adversaries might have been tempted to take advantage of the situation we
faced. Let me assure you, it was not a very happy and pleasant time to become
President of the United States.
But in the past 22 months we have done the right thing. We have been open,
we have been frank, we have been candid in the way in which we have dealt
with people at home and with our allies abroad. And the net result is the
public has had a restoration of confidence and trust as far as the White House
is concerned. And give me 4 more years, and we will do even better in that
period of time.
A year ago we were facing a serious economic problem, the worst in 40 years.
What did we do? We didn't panic. We were calm, we were tough, and the
net result is the rate of inflation has dropped from 12 percent to under 3 percent.
That's a 75-percent reduction, and that's a darn good record.
That just happens to mean that when that paycheck comes from home or
from the factory, you can go to the store and you can do a heck of a lot better.
Your spendable income-because the Ford administration did the right thing—
means more in 1976 than it did in 1974.
But lets talk about jobs for a minute. A year ago, we were losing jobs and
this country faced a terrifically serious economic situation. But what have we
done in the last 12 months? We have added 3,600,000 jobs in 12 months. We
added 700,000 more jobs in the month of May, and we have now-as of the
month of May-87,700,000 Americans on the job, an alltime record, and we're
going to do better than that in the months ahead.
Let me tell you what I think we have to work for. People are always saying,
"What statistics are you talking about when you discuss unemployment?" The
only way I know to describe it is simply this: I want a job for everybody in
America who wants a job and will go and get one.
One comment about foreign policy. This administration has brought peace
to the United States. This administration has the military capability and the
diplomatic skill to keep the peace. And this administration will keep the peace
1840
