April 29
[397]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
America; international tensions threatened the peace in many, many areas of
the world; a crisis of confidence in our own Government and in the basic institu-
tions of our society threatened the promise of a 200-year American experience.
It was a bleak, depressing picture. It was a time that called for strong, affirmative
action.
Twenty-one months later, the results are there for all Americans to take
pride in and for all the world to note. Our national economy in the United States
is growing stronger and stronger, more prosperous and more prosperous every
day. Both the business community and your own families can plan ahead with a
new-found certainty and a new-found security. The economic indicators are
pointing day after day after day to better and better news as far as this country
is concerned.
Almost every segment of our society, of our economy is rebounding in a strong,
dynamic, encouraging way. We are on the road to a new prosperity in America,
and we are not going to be sidetracked now by anybody, period.
Let me point out a few of the facts and factors that make this country strong
and our future great. Employment has gone up-86,700,000 Americans are work-
ing today, and that means more Americans are gainfully employed right now
than ever before in the history of the United States. It also means that we have
gained over 2,600,000 jobs in the last 12 months, and this is progress by any
standard.
Unemployment, it's going down-not as fast as I would like, but it's moving
again in the right direction. And I'm not going to let up in fighting this unem-
ployment problem until every American who wants a job can find a job. That's
what we want.
During 1974, inflation was raging at an annual rate of more than 12 percent.
But the Department of Commerce—and this is the best news we have gotten—
announced just last week that the Consumer Price Index rose at an annual rate,
for the first 3 months of 1976, at the lowest rate in 4 years-less than 3 percent.
We have cut the rate of inflation in the last 20 months 75 percent, and that is
progress, and we are going to make some more.
But what is more encouraging is that the consumer sentiment index-how
you and your family and your neighbors look at the future-is double that of
a year ago. Real earnings for the average American worker have risen signifi-
cantly, well above the rate of inflation, and that means that your purchasing
power is on the increase.
We have achieved this economic recovery through the commonsense steps
that I initiated at the outset of the recession-tax cuts for individuals, tax in-
1343
