April 10
[329]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
329
Remarks at a Bicentennial Commemoration Ceremony in
El Paso. April 10, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Senator John Tower, Congressman Dick White,
Mayor Henderson, Mayor Lezama, Mrs. Barnes, Reverend Nichols, distin-
guished guests:
It is a great privilege for me to be here today dedicating this memorial, which
honors those men from El Paso who gave their lives for their country. Let me
thank the Gold Star Mothers and the El Paso Bicentennial Commission for
sponsoring this very important, this very dramatic occasion.
I extend my particular thanks to Mrs. Barney Barnes for her very kind letter
of invitation, and I commend her sons, Stanley and Mark, both students here
at Parkland High School. It was their efforts which resulted in the bronze
plaque that we dedicate today. They were motivated by the memory of their
brother, Corporal Charles Barnes of the United States Army who was listed
among the 203 men whose memory and bravery we honor.
In a larger sense, we are paying tribute to all those Americans who died for
their country and to Americans throughout our history who paid the very
highest price for the sake of our liberty.
This ceremony should make us realize how precious freedom is and how
dearly Americans have paid for it from the first battles for independence down
to the very present.
This ceremony should also make us thankful for peace we now enjoy. Not
one American serviceman is fighting in any part of the world today. Not one
American mother or wife or daughter, father, brother, or son lives in constant
fear of losing their loved one.
And today, as we dedicate ourselves to preserving the peace and freedom for
which these men died, we must also dedicate ourselves to preserving the peace
they died to secure. Peace today has a very special significance because war
today has a very special terror. A thermonuclear war today would mean death
and destruction on a scale so vast that we can hardly comprehend it. We can avoid
this holocaust, and we will avoid it if we keep American strong, not strong for
the sake of war, but strong for the sake of peace.
This concept is as old as our great Republic. George Washington told us—to
be prepared for war is one of the most effectual means of preserving the peace.
We are prepared today, we will stay prepared. We are strong today, and we will
stay strong today as well as tomorrow.
1093
