[480]
May 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
do the right thing, and the kind of trust and confidence in the White House
which I think is essential.
Now, let me take just a minute or two, I-as Howard said-I became Presi-
dent under somewhat difficult circumstances. It wasn't easy, but I can assure
you that we started out with a reputation of integrity, a reputation of some 25-
plus years as a person who called them as he saw them, who talked straight,
who did his job, and was successful.
And we have tried to pursue exactly the same kind of a policy since I have
become President. The door is open for those who want to talk to us. We tell
the story as we see it. We promise only that which we can deliver, and we
deliver everything we promise, and that's a pretty good record.
When I became the President, because the country had gone through a very
traumatic experience, many of our allies were uncertain. Our adversaries
weren't quite sure, and there could have been a temptation for them to exploit
a situation which was very difficult. But by the kind of programs that we have
carried out-solidifying our allies and making certain that they know that we
are going to stand with those countries in Western Europe, that we are going
to continue to make progress in the Middle East, that when we talk to the
Japanese, whether it is when I visited Japan or when the Emperor visited here,
that Japan knows that they can depend upon us.
As you look around the world you know today that America is respected.
America is looked upon as the leader of the free world. Our allies trust us, and
our adversaries are respectful of our strength and our capabilities.
And if you look here at home, think back to August 1974-the rate of inflation
was 12 percent or more per year, the highest in 40 years. What is it today?
For the first 3 months of 1976, it is less than 3 percent per year. In other words,
if you compare 74 with the first 3 months of 1976, we have cut the rate of
inflation by 75 percent. That's a pretty good record by any standards.
Then, refresh your memory, if you would, back to May or April of 1975.
We were in the depths of a serious recession. Many people in political life, a
number of people-leaders of organized labor-were predicting a depression
comparable to the 1930's. They were the prophets of doom and gloom. And they
said we had to do dramatic, drastic things, that we had to push the panic
button. We had a lot of pressures, believe me. A lot of people were banging on
the door of the Oval Office wanting us to spend a lot more money, wanting us
to undertake this quick-fix program. We didn't succumb to that. We said the
right thing we're going to do. I knew it would work. We weren't going to
succumb to expediency. We didn't.
1584
