May 17
[494]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
very close to the area. And those men—we can be very proud of them, because
both as an organized military unit and, as well, they as individuals and their
families have been really terrific.
THE VICE PRESIDENT. They had many volunteers, too.
The President. I thank you very, very much, Mr. Vice President, and Dan
Parker. It was an emergency mission for the best interests of those unfortunates
who suffered, but I think it's another expression of American humanitarianism
in an emergency, whether it's in Guatemala or Italy. The United States has
moved in the right way as quickly as possible and with very good results.
THE VICE PRESIDENT. And the Italian people, Mr. President, feel the Ameri-
can people are with them. This shows tremendous sense of courage and help
for the people at their moment of need, thanks to you.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you all very much.
NOTE: The meeting began at 2:20 p.m. in the Oval
Office at the White House where Administrator
Parker presented the President with a 17-page re-
port, prepared by the Agency for International
Development, on U.S. relief efforts in Italy.
494
Toasts of the President and President Giscard d'Estaing of France
at a Dinner Honoring the French President. May 17, 1976
Mr. President, Madam Giscard d'Estaing, distinguished guests, ladies and
gentlemen:
We are deeply honored to have the opportunity to have you and your party
with us for this evening. Mrs. Ford and I consider ourselves extremely fortunate
to have this opportunity to extend our hospitality to all of your officially, as
well as personally.
Mr. President, your visit to the United States to share with us the 200th
anniversary of our Declaration of Independence and your presence in this
historic house tonight are vivid reminders of the longstanding and outstand-
ing friendship of our two nations and of France's aid to the United States for
which we are all deeply indebted.
A very glorious chapter in human history, the narrative of French assistance
to the winning of American independence, has been taught in American schools
for two centuries. Every American schoolchild learns of General Rochambeau,
General Lafayette, and Admiral de Grasse at Yorktown. This is part of our
great teaching heritage in America, and for very good reason.
1621
