May 3
[418]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
And Governor Reagan this morning at a news conference raised the question
on the propriety of campaigning on the one hand and holding a revenue shar-
ing meeting at the same time, this close to a primary. Will your expense report
show this trip as political or nonpolitical?
THE PRESIDENT. The expenses of this trip will be paid entirely by the President
Ford Committee, and the expenses that we pay to the Federal Government will
be a matter of public record. And the arrangement for the full payment of this
trip coincide precisely with the Federal Election Commission's reports and
regulations.
Now that we're talking about full disclosure and who owes how much to the
Federal Government, let me raise a question concerning Governor Reagan. I
refer here to 1975 income tax payments.
I have fully told the public what I paid, which was 42 percent of the income
that I earned in 1975. It's a matter of public record. The press knows it; it's been
printed. As far as I know, Governor Reagan has not made public any of his
1975 income tax payments. He has not disclosed it to the press or to the public,
and I suggest respectfully that he do the same on this disclosure as we're doing,
as far as paying the Government for this particular trip, which is total.
Q. I think the issue was that other candidates have to pay for their expenses
and air travel reservations in advance, and this being one of the inequities they
cite.
The President. We are paying precisely according to the regulations of the
Federal Election Commission, and we pay in toto, and we are doing it as
required by the Federal Election Commission. We have to go by their rules and
regulations.
THE PRESIDENT'S SUPPORT OF REPUBLICAN NOMINEE
[11.] Q. Mr. President, should you somehow lose the nomination in Kansas
City, would you be able to support the nominee?
THE PRESIDENT. I have traditionally supported the Republican candidate for
the Presidency. I supported Senator Goldwater in 1964.
Q. So, that's a yes?
THE PRESIDENT. I have traditionally supported and I would expect to support
the Republican nominee.
Q. Along the same lines——
THE PRESIDENT. I don't expect to lose, however, in Kansas City. [Laughter]
I wish I could get the same comment from my opponent, who I expect to lose
in Kansas City. [Laughter]
1439
