April 13
[339]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
THE PRESIDENT. We believe very firmly that those Eastern European countries
should be independent; they should be autonomous. They should have the
opportunity for complete and total diplomatic relations with all countries. We
do not believe that they should be subjected to Soviet Union domination. They
should be independent and autonomous.
I have tried to strengthen our relations with a number of those countries.
I visited Poland; I have visited Romania; I have visited Yugoslavia. We believe
that it is highly desirable that we should have normal relations with them, and
they should have normal relations with other countries, and under no circum-
stances be dominated by any other power.
Q. Well, was there any change in policy or attitude implied in the Sonnen-
feldt ² memo? It certainly aroused a lot of discussion.
THE PRESIDENT. It has aroused a lot of discussion.
Q. How do you read it?
THE PRESIDENT. I read it because I was curious as to what it said. And when
you read it in its entirety, the quoted phrases or sentences are, in effect, taken
out of context, because if you read the total four- or five-page memo, as I recollect,
you get a totally different picture than you do when you just read those several
sentences.
So, as I see it, number one, I know what our policy is regardless of what the
memo says. And, number two, I don't think the sentences that were extracted,
under any circumstances, express the foreign policy of this country in relation-
ship to those countries in Eastern Europe.
VICE-PRESIDENTIAL SELECTION PROCESS
[7.] Q. Thank you. One more. There have been several mentions of the
Vice-Presidency. Do you plan to do what has long been talked about; that is,
to reform the process of the selection of the Vice President? When a delegate
votes at the convention, he is voting for two people, but he only knows the
name of one. Do you plan either to tell the convention in advance who your
selection would be or to have an open convention on the Vice-Presidency?
The President. I would hope we could be in a position in Kansas City so
there would be an opportunity for the delegates, further in advance, to know an
individual that I would prefer, or several individuals that I would prefer. I
think it is too late to drastically change the procedure and the process at the
present time.
On the other hand, if we can get the name or names out before the delegates
2 Helmut Sonnenfeldt, Counselor of the State Department.
1125
