[528]
May 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
We have all shared the blessings of freedom. Now, let's roll up our sleeves
and join in the work of preserving the greatest country in the history of
mankind.
Thank you very, very much.
Sor. The President spoke at 3:25 pm. at the
Walnut Creek Town Square. In his opening re-
marks, he referred to Mavors Robert I. Schroder
of Walnut Creek, George W. Wesson of Lafayette.
Robert I. Harman of Pleasant Hi! and Richard
T. LaPoint: of Concord, Calit.
529
Remarks in Walnut Creek, California. May 25, 1976
Thank you very much John Nejedly, Mayor Schroder, Marguerite Weisheimer,
Les Saywell, fellow Americans:
It's wonderful to be here in Rossmoor. It's just superb weather, obviously
wonderful people, that would be enough to make a person smile.
But just before coming out here, I got some other good news. We got some
reports from the great States of Kentucky and Tennessee. They're having a pri-
mary election today, as you may know. One of six-CBS has just projected that
President Ford is going to win in Kentucky by about 7 points, and all the indica-
tions are that we will do just about as well in Tennessee. So, if I'm smiling, I
apologize, but I just can't help but think those are darn good victories.
I understand that I'm the first President of the United States ever to have the
honor and privilege of speaking here in Rossmoor. And now that I have seen
so much of the facilities and heard so much about what a great place this is from
Dean Lesher,' gee, I think I will go back and tell First Mama that this isn't a
bad place to come. [Laughter]
Well, my message today can be summed up very simply. As much as I believe
in a strong and prosperous American automobile industry, let me say that this
year is absolutely not the year for you to turn in or trade in a reliable Ford for a
flashier model. [Laughter]
My staff gave me a speech that they thought might be appropriate to the cir-
cumstances. And after hearing so much about Rossmoor, I have decided to sort
of put it in my pocket and proceed to talk about some of the things that I think
all of you here might be interested in, and do it right from the cuff because I can
do it with conviction; I can do it with deep feeling.
All of you, I am sure, if you will refresh your memory, can go back to that
month of August in 1974 when this country faced a serious transition, when
Publisher of the Contra Costa Times.
1728
