April 9
[318]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
tend to give anything up as far as the capability of protecting the United States
is concerned.
And now one other comment. For the last 6 years, the Congress of the United
States has cut a total of $32 billion out of military appropriation requests. And
that action by the Congress for the last 6 years has caused me, a year ago, to
submit to the Congress the largest military budget in the history of the United
States. It was necessary to do that to reverse the trend that the Congress had
forced upon the previous President and the previous administration.
Unfortunately, last year the Congress cut that budget $7½ billion. So, in
January of this year, I submitted again the largest military budget in the his-
tory of the United States, $112.4 billion-$14 billion more than the bill that
Congress finally sent down to the White House.
That legislation, or that appropriation-I think Congress has finally awak-
ened—is needed and necessary. But let me assure you this country is militarily
ready, alert, well-trained, well-equipped; is unsurpassed by any other power in
the world today, and we are going to keep it there.
One final word, I took the oath of office and almost from the first day I
decided this: I would never promise more than I could produce, and I would
produce everything that I promised. And that is the crux of what this adminis-
tration believes in.
We are not going to kid anybody. We are going to call them as we see them.
We are going to stand tall and strong. We are going to be honest, candid,
forthright, and we are going to work like the devil for the good of this coun-
try because all of us love the liberty, love the freedom, love the system. It's the
greatest country in the history of mankind. We are proud to be an American,
and we are proud of America. Thank you.
This young lady has a question.
QUESTIONS
GOVERNMENT FUNDS FOR HOMOSEXUAL CONFERENCE
[1.] Q. Yes, sir. I have a problem. There is money coming from your office to
fund something in San Antonio that many people are very unhappy with. We
need your help, sir. That is funding for the homosexual conference.
The President. It is my understanding that an organization here was awarded
by the National Endowment of Humanities to the extent of $5,000. We are look-
ing into it. We understand—I can't give you a firm answer today-we are look-
1033
