[390]
April 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
And also, I think it is worthy of considerable mention, in the last year, from
April or May to the present time, we have added 2,600,000 more people on pay-
rolls throughout this country, so that as of March we had 86,700,000 people
gainfully employed in this great country-an alltime record. And the Ford
administration can claim the credit for it.
So, I think when you talk to your friends, by phone or in person, you have got
something to sell-an affirmative, constructive record. And I promise you, as I
said to all the good people of Conroe, that I think that our third century can
be the greatest century in the history of America. And if we can have an op-
portunity to participate in the first 4 years of it, with a kind of leadership, we
will be off on the right start.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:30 p.m. at the Holiday Inn.
391
Exchange With Reporters on Arrival at Waco, Texas.
April 29, 1976
AS YOU can imagine, I'm delighted to be here in Waco and to have such a
wonderful welcome. And I'm delighted to answer any questions.
REPORTER. Mr. President, recently the Vice President apologized to the Senate
for remarks that he made. Can you state that no Government agencies have
been used to gather information on any political candidates and report back to
the White House?
THE PRESIDENT. Absolutely. As far as I know, there is no effort whatsoever,
and I have strictly said there should be no such effort by any Government agency.
Q. Mr. President, would you rather run against Hubert Humphrey than
Jimmy Carter? Would he be easier to beat?
THE PRESIDENT. Gee, I really can't tell you one way or another. I think I can
win in either case.
Q. Well, with all those statements you made about Hubert Humphrey,
though, were you thinking at that time that he would be easier to beat?
THE PRESIDENT. NO, I simply thought that the combined Democratic power-
makers or dictators in the top echelon would probably end up putting Hubert
in the top spot. But Jimmy Carter seems to have some momentum going that
will make it very different, unless they go to a backroom, smoke-filled room
situation.
1322
