[623]
June 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
623
Proclamation 4446, Bicentennial Independence Day.
June 29, 1976
By the President of the United States of America a Proclamation
The Continental Congress by resolution adopted July 2, 1776, declared that
thirteen American colonies were free and independent states. Two days later,
on the fourth of July, the Congress adopted a Declaration of Independence
which proclaimed to the world the birth of the United States of America.
In the two centuries that have passed, we have matured as a nation and as a
people. We have gained the wisdom that age and experience bring, yet we have
kept the strength and idealism of youth.
In this year of our Nation's Bicentennial, we enter our third century with the
knowledge that we have achieved greatness as a nation and have contributed
to the good of mankind. We face the future with renewed dedication to the
principles embodied in our Declaration of Independence, and with renewed
gratitude for those who pledged their lives, their fortunes and their sacred honor
to preserve individual liberty for us.
In recognition of the two hundredth anniversary of the great historic events
of 1776, and in keeping with the wishes of the Congress, I ask that all Americans
join in an extended period of celebration, thanksgiving and prayer on the sec-
ond, third, fourth and fifth days of July of our Bicentennial year-so that people
of all faiths, in their own way, may give thanks for the protection of divine
Providence through 200 years, and pray for the future safety and happiness of
our Nation.
To commemorate the adoption of the Declaration of Independence, the Con-
gress, by concurrent resolution adopted June 26, 1963 (77 Stat. 944), declared
that its anniversary be observed by the ringing of bells throughout the United
States.
NOW, THEREFORE, I, GERALD R. FORD, President of the United States of Amer-
ica, do hereby proclaim that the two hundredth anniversary of the adoption of
the Declaration of Independence be observed by the simultaneous ringing of
bells throughout the United States at the hour of two o'clock, eastern daylight
time, on the afternoon of the Fourth of July, 1976, our Bicentennial Independ-
ence Day, for a period of two minutes, signifying our two centuries of
independence.
I call upon civic, religious, and other community leaders to encourage public
1928
