July 1
[634]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
To those Commission members who are unable to continue serving—and I
know there are some-let me add a personal note of thanks for the job you have
done. You can be extremely proud of what you have accomplished and confident
that your work will be carried on in the same spirit of dedication by the new
members whose appointments we announced this morning.
The work of the Commission is not just for women, but for the whole United
States. Because this Nation is founded on the principle that all citizens share
the same rights, what affects the rights of one affects the freedoms of all.
The job before us, in which you will play such a vital and important part, is to
bring our national life into harmony with our national philosophy. This is an
awesome task. It is a difficult problem. But we faced such tasks before and I
think we can win.
America faced such a task one century ago. We had to eliminate the shameful
contradiction between our political philosophy—which proclaimed all persons
equal—and our national daily life, in which 4 million men and women were
slaves. Many of America's early crusaders for women's rights were active in the
abolitionist movement. It was there they learned to organize, speak out in public,
and to develop a philosophy of their own basic rights.
It is a bitter irony of American history that when the 15th amendment was
passed in 1870, at long last giving the vote to black men, it did not enfranchise
women, either black or white. That was to wait another 50 years.
More than half a century after women's suffrage became law, much still re-
mains to be done. And all of you are more authoritative than myself on that
point. Not just compassion, but justice and logic dictate that we remove the in-
equities that still exist.
We must remove these injustices suffered by those like Mrs. Mary Heath,
who is here with us today. For 33 years, I am told, she worked with her husband,
side-by-side, building a Nebraska ranch to pass on to their children. In 1974, her
husband passed away, and Mrs. Heath learned that she might have to sell that
ranch to pay off the estate tax. If she had died first, her husband would not
have been faced with such a painful choice. But according to tax law, her years
of work counted for nothing. Unless she could prove she had contributed
money to purchase or improve the ranch, for tax purposes she was no better than
a stranger on her own land.
This problem is not unique to American farm women. It is nothing more or
less than a widow's tax, and it is nothing more or less than a gross injustice. Last
March, I proposed legislation to eliminate that injustice, legislation that still
1947
