[352]
April 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
farm income years in America's history. And that's a tremendous record-a
tribute to the farmers in Indiana and all of the other 49 States.
I don't think it is a mere coincidence that these three very successful years
have been years when the government let the farmer alone and let him produce
without a lot of bureaucratic interference from the Nation's Capital.
I can promise you that that is the kind of successful farm policy that I intend
to pursue for the next 4 years. I propose that we continue the farm policies which
yielded $21,600 million agricultural export market last year and will be about
$22 billion this year.
I propose that we continue policies which will enable the American farmer
to export an estimated 47 million metric tons of feed grain, an alltime record
in the current marketing year. I also urge the Congress to enact my proposal
to increase the estate tax exemption from $60,000 to $150,000. I want the family
farms and other family enterprises to pass from one generation to another
and keep them in the family instead of sacrificing those wonderful products
of hard work, love, faith to some government tax collector.
These are some of the policies that this administration has followed for the
last 20 months and some we intend to follow for the next 4 years to keep
agriculture strong and to keep it growing in the United States of America.
And I am very, very proud to say that the man in charge of those policies is one
of the finest public servants ever to come from the Hoosier State or from any
State, the Secretary of Agriculture, Earl Butz.
I have appointed Earl as Chairman of my new Cabinet-level Agricultural
Policy Committee which will have the central role in developing and directing
our Nation's food policies. With Earl Butz as Chairman, you can be sure that
his strong, plain-spoken common sense and his enthusiastic advocacy of the
American farmer will be well heard in the highest councils of this Govern-
ment. And Indiana can be very, very proud to claim this exceptionally good
man as a native son.
Finally, let me say that as we enter our third century of independence,
America has every right and every reason to be confident about its future.
When you put it all together, agriculturally, economically, technologically,
militarily and, very importantly, morally, I am proud to be an American and
proud of America.
I believe the United States is in the springtime of its life, and I look forward
to working with all of you to meet the great challenges of the future and to
fill that future with new achievement for the nation that we all love so well.
1150
