[643]
July 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
They did not die amid the banners and the fearful sounds of battle. They
weakened slowly and quietly succumbed to cold, sickness, and starvation. Yet
their courage and suffering-those who survived as well as those who fell-
were no less meaningful than the sacrifices of those who manned the battle-
ments of Boston and scaled the parapets of Yorktown.
In the battle against despair, Washington and his men kept freedom's lonely
vigil. The leader and the led drew strength and hope from one another. Around
the winter campfires that dotted these fields, the flame of liberty was somehow
kept burning.
Something happened at Valley Forge. That ragged, starving Army here
emerged and changed in a way that can be sensed but never fully described.
They suffered, they trained, they toughened, they buried their dead, and they
stayed. They stuck it out. When spring melted the snows and green returned
to this beautiful countryside, a proud and disciplined fighting force marched
out of this valley to victory, into the pages of history, unaware of the greatness
they had done and oblivious of our gratitude.
As Abraham Lincoln noted long afterwards at another sacred site in Penn-
sylvania, nothing we can say here today can further consecrate or hallow this
ground. But we can rededicate ourselves to the spirit of sacrifice shown at Val-
ley Forge, Gettysburg, the Argonne Forest, Anzio Beach, and Iwo Jima.
Not all sacrifices are made in war. There are also sacrifices of peace. The
sturdy wagon trains that have returned here, the wonderful people who drove
them, and those along the way who rededicated themselves to the great prin-
ciples of the Declaration of Independence offer heartwarming proof that our
American adventure has just begun.
Our Bicentennial is the happy birthday of all 50 States, a commonwealth, and
self-governing territories. It is not just a celebration for the original Thirteen
Colonies. Americans are one people, and we can still hear them saying, “We
have always governed ourselves, and we always mean to.”
The earliest English settlers carried the Bible and Blackstone's Commentary
across the Atlantic among their few cherished possessions and established their
own self-governments on a strange and hostile coast. American families in prairie
schooners like these took with them on the overland trails the principles of
equality and the God-given rights of the Declaration of Independence.
Their restless search for a better life was begun in the spirit of adventure, but
it was the spirit of sacrifice that sustained them. They suffered cruel winters,
savage attacks, blazing deserts, and bloody feet. Many were buried beside the
trail, but many stuck it out, dug in, and built permanent settlements where
1964
