[499]
May 19
Public Papers of the Presidents
we bring the glorious figure of the founder of the American Nation to life again,
just as one might have seen him coming home in the evening or sitting at
desk by the window.
France, through the kindness of the ladies of Mount Vernon, whom I would
like to thank for their generosity in allowing this show to take place here, we
will again experience through the voices of great American and French actors
one of the most extraordinary epics of liberty.
Mr. President, as a tribute to liberty and a token of friendship, I present
to you in the name of the French people the sound and light show of Mount
Vernon.
Like the Statue of Liberty, the Mount Vernon sound and light display will
be a continuous celebration of the principles of liberty shared by our two
Republics. There could be no more historic or suitable site than Mount Vernon
for France to honor our Bicentennial. It was here on September 9, 1781, that
General Washington arrived just before the decisive battle of Yorktown. He was
joined by French Generals Rochambeau and Chastellux. It was from here that
the American Commander in Chief and his French allies rode to Yorktown
and into the pages of our history. Mr. President, today at Yorktown you per-
sonally commemorated our joint victory. We are proud to share our day of
glory with you.
George Washington's love of Mount Vernon is well known to all of us and to
people around the world. It was to Mount Vernon that his thoughts turned
during the difficult, often discouraging campaigns of the war of our revolu-
tion and during his Presidency.
Visitors to Mount Vernon, Mr. President, will now hear, see, and feel the
emotions aroused by the creation of the United States of America, by Washing-
ton's meeting with LaFayette, and by the friendship of our two countries.
Mr. President, I ask that you convey to the people of France the heartfelt
thanks of the American people for this superb display of sound and light and
for the unique friendship and relationship that it symbolizes.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The exchange began at 9:22 p.m. at Mount
Vernon, Va. President Giscard d'Estaing spoke first
in French and then repeated his remarks in English.
The sound and light program is entitled "The
Father of Liberty" and is about the life and times
of George Washington The program is France's
Bentennial gift to the American people
At the conclusion of the program, the Presidents
attended a reception in the mansion and on the
grounds.
1634
