[535]
May 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
circumstances, how it would affect me, because at the time I was nominated for
the Vice-President, 400 FBI agents investigated my life from birth up to that
point, and 89 of them spent about a month in my hometown. So I think on the
basis of their investigation and the fact that a Democratic Congress, House and
Senate, overwhelmingly approved the record that was made in the Senate
Committee on Procedures and the House Committee on the Judiciary, where
they cleared me of any problems whatsoever—I don't see how this incident
would have any ramification or application as far as I am concerned.
Q. You don't think it would contribute to that whole anti-Washington mood
that Carter and Reagan seem to be exploiting?
THE PRESIDENT. I can't pass judgment on the impact of the anti-Washington
feeling, but it certainly has no application as far as I'm concerned.
REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE
[4.] Q. Mr. President, following your victories in Oregon, Tennessee, and
Kentucky, you declared earlier today that you're the Republican with national
potential, and you had some reservations about Mr. Reagan. Could you elabo-
rate on your reservations about Mr. Reagan as a Republican candidate?
THE PRESIDENT. I'm not going to pass judgment on his capabilities. But I
can look back at the various primaries that I have won, and they cover the
wide spectrum of the United States not only in the North, the East, the West,
and the South but they are broad in their application.
I think it does point out beyond any doubt that I am the most electable Re-
publican candidate. If I am the most electable Republican candidate and can
help elect Members of the House and Senate on our side of the aisle, plus
State legislatures, I think I am the candidate that is in the best interest of the
philosophy of the Republican Party. I will let Mr. Reagan undertake a defense
of his electability.
Q. Throughout the campaign you have chided Mr. Reagan for perhaps
moving social security funds into the stock market. You said earlier today
you thought perhaps his remarks on the TVA and returning it to private
industry have hurt him there, and you suggested at times that he would be
reckless in his confrontations. Do you have reservations about Mr. Reagan as
a man who should sit in the Oval Office?
THE PRESIDENT. I have said, first, that I expect to get the nomination, and I
expect to be elected in November. But I have traditionally-and I am proud
of it—always supported the Republican nominee.
1748
