May 13
[474]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
and Arab peoples but for the well-being of all Americans and all humanity.
The United States has demonstrated the strength of our free economy, as well
as our faith and vision of the future. These qualities are characteristics of a
kindred people, the people of Israel. Americans and Israelis have both been
inspired by moral aims. Indeed, my commitment to the security and to the
future of Israel is based upon basic morality as well as enlightened self-interest.
Our role in supporting Israel honors our own heritage.
America remains the real hope for freedom throughout the world. We will
remain the ultimate guarantor of Israel's freedom. If we falter, there is no one
to pick up the torch. If we withdraw ourselves, those who rely on the United
States, those who gain their strength from us, are lost.
But we will not falter; we will not withdraw. We will remain steadfast in
our dedication to peace and to the survival of Israel. There may at times be dif-
ferences between America and Israel over the means to achieve mutual goals.
But there has not and will not be any erosion of the fundamental American-
Israeli friendship, nor will I forsake the goal of peace or the moral commitment
to Israel which now I reaffirm. With that conviction, I tonight reiterate the
words of George Washington to the Hebrew congregation of Newport, Rhode
Island, two centuries ago. The Government of the United States will continue
“to give to bigotry no sanction, to persecution, no assistance.” That is my goal
worldwide, as it is at home.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:55 p.m. in the In-
ternational Ballroom at the Washington Hilton
Hotel. In his opening remarks, he referred to Max
M. Fisher, honorary chairman of the National
Executive Council, and Elmer Winter, national presi-
dent, American Jewish Committee.
474
Message on the Observance of National Nursing Home Week.
May 13, 1976
IT IS vitally important to the strength and future progress of our society that
those citizens in need of long-term institutional care—especially the elderly—
be provided the best possible environment and attention during their period
of recuperation or, in some cases, for the remainder of their lives. With this
in mind, I want to salute the dedicated men and women who help to ensure
proper nursing home care for those who require it.
It is encouraging to note the tremendous growth of the nursing home industry
1569
