April 9
[321]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Hartley Act. And I would vigorously oppose and not approve the deletion of
Section 14(b) of the Taft-Hartley Act.
I voted for, and strongly support, what we call the Landrum-Griffin Act,
which tried to put more responsibility and control over certain practices in
labor organizations.
It seems to me that with the current court decisions and the existing law, we
are getting away from monopolistic practices and undesirable practices in many
of the areas where they were bad in the thirties and the forties and the fifties.
Now, it's not utopia, don't get me wrong. But I honestly think we are making
some headway.
Q. The issue that I was really concerned about—we are far from it here in
our country, but looking at Great Britain, it could conceivably get to a point
where the unions could paralyze the nation's operation.
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think our situation is comparable to that of Great
Britain, and I have been impressed with the restraint-under the kind of facts
of life that they were faced with—with the attitude in the last few months of
the major labor organizations in Great Britain. Of course, it was obvious if they
didn't do it, the country itself would have had serious economic repercussions.
But in this country, certainly we are not in that situation. I don't think we will
ever get there.
FEDERAL INTERVENTION IN AMERICAN BUSINESS
[13.] Q. Mr. President, first of all I wanted to thank you for coming to
Dallas and spending some time here with each of us. And as a final question, I
would like to ask, what specific steps has your administration taken to reduce
Federal Government intervention, or whatever have you, in the life of the aver-
age American businessman? What steps have you taken or will you take?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me give you one or more specifics. Number one, about a
year ago, a little less than that, I asked the Office of Management and Budget
how many forms go to American businessmen in every department of the
Federal Government. They totaled them up, and they were roughly 5,200. Now,
all of them don't go to all of you, although you may think so. [Laughter] But
that is the total that go to American business from all departments.
We had a conference, and after that conference I said, "By July 1 of this year,
you have got to cut 10 percent off.” And we have now reduced that by about
5 percent. And by July 1, orders are to achieve a total of a 10 percent reduction,
which is 520 of them. They are making some headway.
Now, we are trying under the law-and I know that this may be a sensitive
1053
