May 3
[417]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
QUESTIONS
Q. Mr. President, I'm Steve Moberly, a member of the Indiana legislature.
One of the criticisms of the Federal revenue sharing program has been that
local people, ordinary people on the local level do not have input in how the
money is spent or the priorities in the spending of the money. My question
has two parts: Do you consider that a problem and, if so, what can be done to
remedy it?
THE PRESIDENT. I do not consider it a problem because local people have won
very direct control over how the money is spent, because every 2 or 4 years they
can change their township or county or city officials if they don't think the job
is being done properly.
In many other cases, I know because I visited a good many communities and
mayors and other public officials, when they make decisions as to how general
revenue sharing should be spent, they have community meetings around the
city or in the local units of government and get the advice, the counsel, the
recommendation of where these funds should be allocated.
So, in two ways, I think, the public can be deeply involved in the expenditure
of general revenue sharing at the local level: One, by the election process; and,
two, by good leadership in local units of government, giving the public an op-
portunity to participate in the process of determination.
Q. Mr. President, I'm Jack Patterson, a member of the City Council here in
the city of Indianapolis. What is your projection for local manpower programs
for the coming year and what flexibility on the local level do you anticipate?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, in the so-called CETA program [Comprehensive
Employment and Training Act], comprehensive education training legislation,
I requested full funding for that program, and I signed just a week or so ago
a supplemental appropriation which would include funds up through the
end of the current fiscal year. And the Congress and myself will be working
together to try and fund the program for the fiscal year which begins July 1.
I have asked for the full funding of that program, including the full funding
for next year, next calendar year, of what we call the summer youth program
at a figure of about $440 million, something in that magnitude. I think the
CETA program has been a good one, and I think we can look back and say
that it did a good job during the economic recession that we had in part of
last year.
And So, I believe that we should fully fund it. I think we have to gradually
1423
