[474]
May 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
and the steady expansion of its critical role in promoting the well-being of
our communities. The success we have realized is a tribute to the American
spirit of concern for others and to our national willingness to work together
for the common good.
On this special observance I commend the nursing home industry and express
deep gratitude for its outstanding contribution to the quality of life in our
country.
NOTE: National Nursing Home Week was observed May 9 16, 1976
GERALD R. FORD
475
Exchange With Reporters on Arrival at Bristol, Tennessee.
May 14, 1976
GOOD MORNING. It's great to be back in Johnson City. I have been here
on at least one occasion, I think in 1972 or 1970. I wish it was possible for me
to do more traveling in Tennessee. We are going to Memphis, of course, but
I would have been delighted to go to Knoxville and Chattanooga and Nashville
and the many other nice places in Tennessee. But the fact that I also have to
do the job of being President to a substantial degree cuts back my opportunities
to see the many people in Tennessee and Kentucky and Michigan that I would
like.
But, as I think all of you know, I'm running on my record as President for
the last 21 months. I think that's a good record. It's a record of achievement
in the field of domestic affairs. We have cut the rate of inflation by 75 percent.
We have added 3,300,000 people to the job rolls in this country in the last 12
months. We added 710,000 new people on the job rolls just the last month of
April. And if we look at the overall, we are at peace; we have got the strength
to maintain the peace. And finally, I think the Ford administration has restored
confidence, integrity, candor, and forthrightness in the White House.
So, when you sum up the substance of the 21 months, I think I can say with
pride that we have achieved peace. We are on the road to a growing and
permanent prosperity, and the White House today has the trust and confidence
of the American people.
I'm deeply grateful that Senator Howard Baker is here and your own
Congressman Jimmy Quillen as well as your fine, former Governor, Winfield
Dunn.
1570
