[629]
July 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
tions Committees of each House of Congress. This requirement violates the
fundamental constitutional doctrine of separation of powers. While similar
provisions have been included in congressional enactments, and have been found
objectionable on these grounds, this particular requirement is especially onerous
in that it intrudes upon the execution of programs in 19 different appropriation
categories.
Since I view this provision as severable from what is an otherwise valid exer-
cise of legislative authority, and because it is presented for my signature in the
last week of the fiscal year, I am not withholding my approval. We shall continue
to work with the Appropriations Committees, as with all committees of the Con-
gress, in a spirit of cooperation. We shall continue to keep the Congress fully
informed on a current basis on the execution of the laws. However, we shall not
concur in a delegation of the powers of appropriation to two committees of
Congress.
NOTE: As enacted, H.R. 12203, approved June 30, 1976, 19 Public Law 94-330 (90 Stat. 771).
630
Statement on Signing the International Security
Assistance and Arms Export Control Act of 1976.
July 1, 1976
I HAVE signed into law H.R. 13680, the International Security Assistance and
Arms Export Control Act of 1976. This measure authorizes appropriations to
carry out security assistance and other programs in the fiscal years 1976 and 1977
and makes extensive changes in the methods, organization, and procedures
through which those programs are carried out.
On May 7, 1976, I returned to the Congress without my approval S. 2662, the
predecessor of the bill which I am signing today. I did so because that bill con-
tained numerous provisions which would have seriously undermined the consti-
tutional responsibility of the President for the conduct of the foreign affairs of
the United States. That bill embodied a variety of restrictions that would have
seriously inhibited my ability to implement a coherent and consistent foreign
policy and some which raised fundamental constitutional difficulties as well.
The present bill, H.R. 13680, imposes new requirements, restrictions, and
limitations on the implementation of security assistance programs. Many of
these new requirements are based on congressional desires to increase the flow
of information regarding the scope and direction of security assistance programs
1936
