[649]
July 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
Our common goal is freedom-the liberty of each individual to enjoy the
equal rights and to pursue the happiness which in this life God gives and self-
government secures.
Our common glory is the great heritage from the past which enriches the
present and ensures our future.
In 1884 France, as a birthday gift, presented the United States with a statue-
the Statue of Liberty in New York Harbor. This year scores of friendly nations
have sent us Bicentennial gifts which we deeply appreciate and will long cherish.
But you have given us a birthday present beyond price-yourselves, your
faith, your loyalty, and your love. We thank you with full and friendly hearts.
After two centuries there is still something wonderful about being an Ameri-
can. If we cannot quite express it, we know what it is. You know what it is, or
you would not be here today. Why not just call it patriotism?
Thomas Jefferson was a Virginia planter, a politician, a philosopher, a prac-
tical problemsolver, a Palladian architect, a poet in prose. With such genius he
became a burgess, a delegate, a Governor, an ambassador, a Secretary of State, a
Vice President, and President of the United States. But he was first a patriot.
The American patriots of 1776 who pledged their lives, their fortunes, and
their sacred honor to declare and defend our independence did more than dis-
solve their ties with another country to protest against abuses of their liberties.
Jefferson and his colleagues very deliberately and very daringly set out to con-
struct a new kind of nation. "Men may be trusted," he said, "to govern them-
selves without a master." This was the most revolutionary idea in the world at
that time. It remains the most revolutionary idea in the world today.
Washington, Franklin, Adams, Jefferson, Hamilton, Madison and all patriots
who laid the foundation for freedom in our Declaration and our Constitution
carefully studied both contemporary and classic models of government to adapt
them to the American climate and our circumstances. Just as Jefferson did in
designing Monticello, they wanted to build in this beautiful land a home for
equal freedom and opportunity, a haven of safety and happiness, not for them-
selves alone, but for all who would come to us through centuries.
How well they built is told by millions upon millions who came and are still
coming. Our first national census in 1790 produced a recorded population just
under 4 million. Three-fourths of them traced their ancestry to the British Isles,
though most had considered themselves American for several generations. There
was already talk about further immigration, proposing it should be selective and
restrictive, but this was swept aside by the greatest mass movement of people in
all human history.
1974
