May 13
[473]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
tee, combined with Federal and local authority and the willingness to act, to
preserve, and to extend the values that we all share.
Two hundred years ago, there were relatively few Jews in America. Though
small in number, they were great in spirit. They served in all capacities. George
Washington turned to one patriot of Jewish faith, Haym Salomon, when the
budget of the Continental Army was totally depleted. Salomon sacrificed his
personal fortune and encouraged others to join in financing the American Rev-
olution. In pursuing justice and liberty, he personified the finest qualities of
American patriotism.
In those early, early days, we benefited not only from our own patriots but
from outside assistance to establish and to maintain our independence. Today,
the American people, regardless of religion, see justice in this Nation's tradi-
tional and special relationship to a kindred nation in the Middle East—the
State of Israel.
Most of you know, I am sure, the first head of a foreign government to visit
the White House in this Bicentennial Year was Prime Minister Rabin of Israel.
He paid homage to the shrine of our freedom in Philadelphia before he came
to our Nation's Capital.
The Israelis' tribute to our Bicentennial demonstrates the basic values shared
by America with Israel. Both nations were born in the face of armed opposition.
Both nations are a haven for people fleeing persecution. Both nations find
their vitality and their vision in a commitment to freedom and to democracy.
Both nations share the courage and the determination to preserve their
independence and their security.
Israel and the United States have an affinity not only for each other but for
basic principles of democratic self-government which distinguish these two
nations from most other nations in today's world. America must and America
will pursue friendship with all nations, but this will never be done at the expense
of America's commitment to Israel.
A strong Israel is essential to a stable peace in the Middle East. Our
commitment to Israel will meet the test of American steadfastness and resolve.
My administration will not be found wanting. The United States will continue
to help Israel provide for her security.
The funds which I have proposed to the Congress for the two budgets that
I have submitted total over $4 billion. I favor such aid because it is so clearly
in the national security interest of the United States and so essential to preserve
and to promote peace in the Middle East. These figures speak far more
1567
