[349]
April 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
ment. Specifically, the Congress refused to provide the full funding I requested
for new naval ships, took away funds for two of our new airborne warning
and control systems aircraft designed to vastly improve our surveillance, warn-
ing, and control capabilities, denied us additional attack aircraft, reduced the
funds for modifying civil reserve air fleet aircraft, delaying our backup airlift
capability for support in military contingencies, cut our intelligence and com-
munications programs, reduced the program for our new B-1 strategic bomber,
cut into the Air Force program for development of a new air combat fighter
to maintain our air superiority in the future, reduced our ballistic missile defense
technology program, reduced the fund request for war reserve stocks and spare
parts needed to sustain our fighting men in combat. I could go on and on but
the point is clear: No President could countenance such disregard for the
Nation's security needs.
So in January of this year, 1976-only 3 months ago-I submitted an even
bigger defense budget: $112,700 million, or a 14 percent bigger budget than the
defense budget of the year before. I also made it very clear that if the Congress
sent me a defense bill that shortchanged the needs of this country, I would take
the unprecedented step of vetoing it because congressional action was inade-
quate. Furthermore, I have gone to the American people on this issue. To my
satisfaction, it seems the American people share my concern and are communi-
cating that message to the Congress, and their message was loud and clear-
stop cheating the country's defenses.
Two weeks ago the Congress took the first steps toward committing us to the
biggest single increase in defense spending since the Korean War. I thank you
and millions of other Americans for your help in this very crucial matter. I
hope you and literally millions of other Americans will keep the pressure on
the Congress. The defense program that I am advancing will mean that the
United States of America will remain unsurpassed for years and years to come.
Just about 2 weeks ago, we laid the keel for the first of a new class of nuclear
submarines to be armed with the most accurate submarine ballistic missiles in
the world. The Trident missile fleet will be the foundation for a formidable,
technologically superior force through the 1980's. We are now completing the
final testing of the world's most modern and capable strategic bomber, the
B-1. We are are also accelerating work on a new intercontinental ballistic missile
for the 1980's. We are developing a new cruise missile for our air and naval
forces.
Nor does our effort stop with weapons, for we are also expanding our Army
from 13 to 16 combat divisions.
1142
