[462]
May 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
I have talked about the past, I have talked of where we are going, and the
three main areas that it seems to me is how you should judge how you vote on
next Tuesday-peace, prosperity, integrity or trust.
But what we have to do is to make sure that those policies are in our vision
and will be our efforts for the next 4 years. I can assure you that with your sup-
port on next Tuesday and with your support in November, we can continue
those high, strong resolutions that we have had of peace and prosperity and
trust.
But why do we want to do it? And I think that's a good question with so
many wonderful young people here this afternoon. It has been the tradition, it
has been the heritage of America that we do things for those that follow. Our
forefathers did it for us. They sacrificed and they made a better America for
all of us. And those of you who can go to vote on next Tuesday, I think you
ought to look at what you want for America for the next 4 years--not for your-
self, necessarily, but for these young people whose stake in the world is what
you can strengthen and the opportunity for them which you can strengthen.
I ask you on the basis of performance-the achievement and the maintenance
of peace; prosperity; a progress out of a recession toward a healthy and pros-
perous economy; and the restoration of trust in your Presidency-I ask for your
help and assistance, performance versus promises. And what we have done in
21 months we can do even better for you and yours in the next 4 years.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:30 p.m. at Shain Park.
463
Remarks at a Public Rally in Roseville, Michigan.
May 12, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Governor Bill Milliken, Senator Bob Griffin, my
former colleagues in the House of Representatives, distinguished guests, ladies
and gentlemen:
Gee, it's great to be back home, and it's wonderful to be in Macomb County.
They told me that it would be great to come back home and see a few friends.
but from the minute we landed until here, the warmth of the reception and the
enthusiasm is great. And let me tell you right now, I won't let you down for the
next 4 years.
Now, in this campaign, we have heard a lot of rhetoric. We have had a lot
1546
