May 8
[444]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
We aren't going out to tell people that we will promise them the Moon, when
we know in our hearts we can't perform. And everything we tell them, every-
thing we promise them, we will achieve. That's the way we have been, and the
results are good-prosperity, peace, and trust between the people and the Presi-
dent of the United States.
And, therefore, it's my view that we can go to our fellow citizens with an
assurance, with a feeling that they can trust us, and we can work for them.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:35 a.m. in the Empire D Room at the Holiday Inn.
444
Commencement Address at the University of Nebraska
in Lincoln. May 8, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Chancellor Breckenridge, Dr. Varner, Mr. Moylan,
Senator Hruska, Senator Curtis, graduates, families, and guests:
President Varner, it was my great privilege this morning to be initiated as an
Honorary Member of the Senior Honorary Society of Innocents; that is a
unique occasion, an honor, for a President of the United States. [Laughter]
But as I walked in here, I was just greatly impressed by this fantastic sports
center. Bob Devaney is not only a great football coach and Terry Carpenter is
not only a great legislator but both of them aren't bad architects either.
[Laughter]
I was born not far from here, in Omaha, and although I moved away at a
very early age, I have always had a great affection and a tremendous respect for
Nebraska and for the people of the Great Plains.
Some years before many of you graduating here were born, I can remember
very vividly the welcome given by Great Britain to Dwight Eisenhower, who
was raised, of course, in your next-door neighbor, the State of Kansas. It was
just after the Second World War and he was a hero on both sides of the Atlantic.
There in Guildhall, before an assemblage of leading dignitaries, Ike told the
audience in very simple but very moving eloquence, “I come from the heart of
America.” It was always one of Ike's proudest claims. It has always been one
of my proudest claims. And in the years before all of you, I hope that it will be-
come one of your proudest testaments as well.
Before coming here today, I thought back for a few moments on how much
you, the graduating students of the Class of 1976, have seen and witnessed dur-
1
1505
