June 2
[547]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
546
Letter to the Speaker of the House and the President of the Senate
Transmitting a Report on United Nations Actions To Account
for Americans Missing in Action in Southeast Asia. June 1, 1976
IN ACCORDANCE with Section 503 of the Foreign Relations Authorization
Act, Fiscal Year 1976, I am transmitting to you a report on “Actions Taken by
the United Nations to Obtain an Accounting of Americans Missing in Action in
Southeast Asia." To fulfill the requirements of this section the United States
Mission to the United Nations conferred with the Secretary General and his staff
on the question of what action has been taken concerning the missing in action.
The information on which the enclosed report is based was obtained as a result
of their joint staff effort.
Sincerely,
NOTE: This is the text of identical letters addressed
to the Honorable Carl Albert, Speaker of the House
of Representatives, and the Honorable Nelson A.
Rockefeller, President of the Senate.
GERALD R. FORD
The four-page report is entitled "A Report on
Actions Taken by the UN To Obtain an Accounting
of Americans Missing in Action in Southeast Asia,
Pursuant to Sec. 503 (b) of PL 94-141."
547
Remarks of Welcome to King Juan Carlos of Spain.
June 2, 1976
YOUR MAJESTIES, on behalf of the American people I take great pleasure
in welcoming you to the United States. Your first visit as King and Queen of
Spain to the United States renews the historic and deep ties between our two
countries.
Nearly 500 years ago Spain was a leader in the great age of exploration that
opened this continent to settlement and to development. Now, in this Bicen-
tennial Year the people of Spain and America can recall with pride a group
of brave Spaniards led by Bernardo de Gálvez, who helped 200 years ago in our
struggle for national independence.
In 1776 Gálvez, then Governor of Louisiana, provided needed arms and sup-
plies to those struggling for freedom in the American colony. Later, his ex-
peditions near Pensacola, Mobile, and Natchez helped to keep the Mississippi
1771
