[639]
July 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
for effective government where the unalienable rights of individual Americans
are secure.
In grade school we were taught to memorize the first and last parts of the
Declaration. Nowadays, even many scholars skip over the long recitation of
alleged abuses by King George III and his misguided ministers. But occasionally
we ought to read them, because the injuries and invasions of individual rights
listed there are the very excesses of government power which the Constitution,
the Bill of Rights, and subsequent amendments were designed to prevent.
The familiar parts of the Declaration describe the positives of freedom; the
dull part, the negatives. Not all the rights of free people-nor all the necessary
powers of government-can be enumerated in one writing or for all time, as
Madison and his colleagues made plain in the 9th and 10th amendments.
But the source of all unalienable rights, the proper purposes for which govern-
ments are instituted among men, and the reasons why free people should con-
sent to an equitable ordering of their God-given freedom have never been better
stated than by Jefferson in our Declaration of Independence. Life, liberty, and
the pursuit of happiness are cited as being among the most precious endow-
ments of the Creator-but not the only ones.
Earlier, Jefferson wrote that "The God who gave us life, gave us liberty at the
same time." This better explains the bold assertion that "all Men are created
equal" which Americans have debated for two centuries. We obviously are not
equal in size or wisdom or strength or fortune. But we are all born-having had
nothing to say about it at all—and from the moment we have a life of our own,
we have a liberty of our own, and we receive both in equal shares. We are all
born free in the eyes of God.
That eternal truth is the great promise of the Declaration, but it certainly
was not self-evident to most of mankind in 1776. I regret to say it is not univer-
sally accepted in 1976. Yet the American adventure not only proclaimed it; for
200 years we have consistently sought to prove it true. The Declaration is the
promise of freedom; the Constitution continuously seeks the fulfillment of free-
dom. The Constitution was created and continues-as its preamble states-"to
secure the Blessings of Liberty to ourselves and our Posterity."
The great promise of the Declaration requires far more than the patriot sacri-
fices of the American Revolution, more than the legal stabilizer of the Consti-
tution, more than Lincoln's successful answer to the question of whether a
nation so conceived and so dedicated could long endure.
What does the Declaration declare?—that all human beings have certain rights
as a gift from God; that these rights cannot lawfully be taken away from any
1
1956
