[484]
May 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
first of a series of new missile launching submarines, the Trident missile fleet,
which will be the foundation for a strong and technologically superior force
through the 1980's.
We are developing new fighters and new intercontinental ballistic missiles
for the 1980's and a cruise missile for our air and naval forces.
The B-1 is approaching its final testing, and every test so far is on the plus
side. And I have recommended the procurement funds for the 200-plus air-
craft which will be phased in to replace our B-52's.
And I want to say this to all of you: We owe our soldiers-every one of us,
those in civilian life or those in military life-we owe our soldiers, sailors, air-
men and marines the finest tools, the finest equipment, the finest leadership
that this country can provide. And we are going to provide it.
That goes for all members of the total force that protects America, both active
and Reserve components. The National Guard and Reserve forces are a great
part of America's fighting team, and I intend to continue improving the com-
bat power and the readiness of that force.
Within the last 2 hours, as some of you may know, I signed a law, a bill mak-
ing our National Guard and Reserve units an even more significant part of our
total forces.
Until today, it took a national emergency or an act of Congress to put the
Reserves into action. Under this new law, the President will be able to mobilize
up to 50,000 of selected Reserves for a period of 90 days. Of course, we all hope
and we all trust that such an order will never have to be given, but if it is, we
can now count on the effective deployment of a significant number of reservists
to participate with our active duty personnel on the defense of this great country.
This means that our Reserve and National Guard are being given an increased
responsibility, a greater importance in our total force complex, so it is more
important than ever that they be equipped and treated as first-class units. And
Secretary Rumsfeld and I are going to see that this advanced equipment is
available to your units throughout the country.
I was glad to find that the Kentucky Air National Guard has just replaced
their outmoded R-F 101's with one of our most modern reconnaissance fighters,
the R-F-4-C. This is the type of improvement that we are aiming to achieve
across the board, and we will achieve with the support of the Congress.
Organizations such as those represented here in this room tonight-the
100th Army Reserve Division, the Kentucky Air National Guard, the Retired
Officers' Association and the Reserve Officers' Training Corps--are a very
integral part of the fighting team that deserves America's support.
1594
