May 13
[469]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
that we sent to the Congress an hour or so ago which, I believe, is a very far-
reaching, and could be, if the Congress will respond, a very effective way of
really getting an honest-to-goodness review in a thorough and an objective and
a proper way of the manner in which some of these regulatory agencies and
commissions have operated. It is my observation that some of them have been
going on and on and on. Like an old friend of mine up on the Hill used to
say, “Going on and on like Tennyson's brook." [Laughter]
So, I do hope that you will get an opportunity to get a very broad briefing, not
only on regulatory reform but the other matters that are of deep concern to you.
I recall very vividly the discussion that we had concerning representation
from your group on the Advisory Committee of Multilateral Trade Negotia-
tions, and it was the thought that following our get-together that somebody
from this organization itself should be with those that are advising our negotia-
tors what they should or should not do.
It is my understanding that Mr. Stanley Goodman of your organization, the
May Corporation, is the person that will be your representative. I have had the
privilege and pleasure of knowing Mr. Goodman, and I think that his selection
will benefit us, help our negotiators, and immeasurably be beneficial to your
industry, and I congratulate you.
A final comment, if I may. The meeting that you attended in mid-March
where we had an opportunity to sit down and talk is only indicative of the kind
of meetings that we hold very frequently, very regularly in the White House.
I was talking to Bill Baroody¹ a day or two ago, and I asked him for a sum-
mary of how many organizations, how many people actually of this kind had
been able to sit down with the top people in the administration and the govern-
ment and exchange views that might be very beneficial and very helpful on both
sides. As I recall, Bill said that the number of organizations was around 100
and some 15,000 people had come into the White House, sat down, told us
their problems, indicated their concerns, and made recommendations as to what
might and should be done.
This, I think, is the way to approach the solution to the problems that we
both have, and I welcome you back again some time I am sure during the next
4 years. [Laughter] It would not disappoint me if it was every year.
So, I thank you for the opportunity to say a few words, and I commend you
to the wisdom and the experience and the fine job that Elliot Richardson has
1 Assistant to the President for Public Liaison.
1557
