April 13
[339]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
son. I would like to ask the Members of Congress present to join me at the
signing table.
It is now my pleasure to sign House Joint Resolution 670, designating April 13
as Thomas Jefferson Day. Representative Bob McClory was the principal spon-
sor, and so as I sign this, I will give him this pen and we will distribute the others.
Now, it is my honor to sign S. 2920, the legislation which officially designates
the Library of Congress Annex as the Library of Congress Thomas Jefferson
Building. And I think on this occasion, it would be appropriate to give this pen
to the senior Senator from Virginia, the Honorable Harry Byrd.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:20 p.m. at the
Jefferson Memorial. In his opening remarks, he
referred to Secretary of the Interior Thomas S.
Kleppe and Capt. Robert M. Barnes of the District
of Columbia Society of the Sons of the American
Revolution.
As enacted, H.J. Res. 670 is Public Law 94-263
(90 Stat. 328), and S. 2920 is Public Law 94-264
(90 Stat. 329).
339
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session With
Members of the American Society of
Newspaper Editors. April 13, 1976
MR. PHILLIPS [Warren H. Phillips, Wall Street Journal]. Mr. President, we
appreciate your letting us come and visit with you and your willingness to
respond to our questions.
We are going to have a panel question you this afternoon, and they will be,
in alphabetical order, first Bob Bartley, editor of the editorial page of the Wall
Street Journal; Tony Day of the Los Angeles Times; Tom Johnson of the
Dallas Times Herald; Abe Rosenthal of the New York Times; and Howard
Simons of the Washington Post.
QUESTIONS
BETTY FORD
[1.] Q. I am told that as president of the ASNE this year, I have the pre-
rogative to ask the first question, and I have a question on your running mate.
Those of us who saw Mrs. Ford dance at the Gridiron last week wonder if
you have given any consideration to putting her on the ticket as your running
mate? [Laughter]
1121
