[387]
April 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
VETERANS' EDUCATION BENEFITS
[24.] Q. Just one more question. On the GI bill, do you plan to pass the
bill on the delimiting date on Korean veterans and, if so, how will 500,000 vet-
erans who are depending on this money to finish their education do this?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the ones who are presently in the educational process, I
think you can make a good argument that they ought to have the opportunity
to continue it, but there has to come a terminating point at some point in the
future. We should take care of those who are presently engaged in getting an
education. But I think there has to be a terminal point, whether it is 8 years or
10 years after the conclusion of their military service.
VICE PRESIDENT ROCKEFELLER
[25.] Q. Good morning, sir. John Cochran, NBC.
Sir, your campaign manager, Rogers Morton, has been quoted as saying you
should give some thought to reconsidering Vice President Rockefeller to con-
tinue on in that office. And I just wonder if there were any circumstances under
which you might say to the Vice President, "Well, you have done a good job,
you have been loyal, and I wonder if you would reconsider about your avail-
ability and stay on?"
THE PRESIDENT. The best answer to that is that the Vice President wrote me
a letter a few months ago and indicated he did not want to be considered as a
potential Vice-Presidential candidate in the future, and I have seen no evidence
of any change in his attitude.
Q. I imagine you could be very persuasive though if you wanted him to stay
on. Do you think that there could be a circumstance under which he would
stay-look around at all the available candidates and say, "Well, I think he is
still the best one?"
THE PRESIDENT. I Would not, under any circumstances, assume that he would
change his mind. I have seen no evidence of it. So, until that change takes
place—and I have seen no desire on his part to have it change—I think we
ought to consider all of the other outstanding potential Republican candidates.
Q. So, he would sort of have to make the first move?
THE PRESIDENT. I think under all circumstances that is the proper way to
proceed, yes.
DEMOCRATIC OPPOSITION IN CONGRESS
[26.] Q. Mr. President, I am Jacqueline Edge for the Highlands Star.
I would like to know, how can the American public expect any President to
1310
