[339]
April 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. She keeps embarrassing me. [Laughter] There was a recent
poll I think the Detroit News printed over the weekend, which indicated she was
doing her job far better than I was, which tends to coincide with some of the
other polls that I have seen. I will leave that up to the delegates, I think.
DEFENSE BUDGET
[2] Q. Mr. President, I see in the [Weekly Compilation of] Presidential
Documents that less than a month ago, you were saying that while you would
fight to have your defense budget approved without change, you considered that
hope too optimistic. Now, it seems that Congress will, in fact, give you every-
thing you ask for or maybe more. I wonder what you think happened in that
month to change the outlook so radically?
THE PRESIDENT. I think the answer there is very simple. Don Rumsfeld, the
new Secretary of Defense, and myself laid out a program of consultation with
the Congress in trying to point out to them the disastrous actions that Congress
had taken over the last 5 years, where they have cut somewhere around $32 or
$33 billion out of the accumulated defense appropriations that have been sent
to the Hill.
We pointed out to them if the Congress continued to do that, as they have
been doing, and more specifically with the $7.5 billion cut in the defense appro-
priation bill that I sent last year, if that trend was continued with such con-
gressional slashes, the United States military capability could be seriously
jeopardized.
We have had a number of meetings-myself, Secretary Rumsfeld, many
others-and I think we have made some headway, at least the House Budget
Committee, the Senate Budget Committee. And their figure gave me precisely
the figure, or within a few million dollars of what I requested. And the House
Committee on Armed Services actually recommended, and the House finally
approved, something slightly over what I recommended.
So, I think the total effort by Secretary Rumsfeld and myself has convinced
the Congress that they can't cut this budget as they have the budgets for the last
6 years.
Q. I know that you have been saying recently that this is the largest peace-
time defense budget in history, but if you discount for inflation and put it in
constant dollars, it is still the second smallest in recent years. I wonder if you had
known that you were going to have as little opposition in Congress as you have
had, maybe whether you would have asked for something more?
THE PRESIDENT. Not at all, because when I put the budget together-the total
1122
