May 3
[417]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
The reason, as I see it, is very, very simple. It is the success that you have made
of the general revenue sharing program since 1972. As the Republican leader
of the House of Representatives in 1972, I was a strong and very early advocate
of the revenue sharing concept.
If there is one thing that the Federal Government is good at, it is collecting
taxes. On the other hand, it has been very clumsy and very unsuccessful in
dealing with local problems. Since 1972, nearly $25 billion in revenue sharing
funds have been returned to the 50 States and 39,000 local units of government
throughout the United States. Seven billion dollars has been returned in 1976
alone. Twenty-five percent of these funds were spent on public safety. Nearly
22 percent was on education, and other substantial amounts went for public
transportation, environmental protection, and for health services..
And the greatest success of revenue sharing is this: Washington involve-
ment is held to the absolute minimum in the operation of the program. Only
one-eighth of 1 penny of every revenue sharing dollar goes to the bureaucracy
in Washington, D.C. Less than 100 employees are involved in Washington in
this program. That is the kind of a program we ought to extend and enlarge
and broaden in all of our operations between the Federal Government and
local units of government.
Because general revenue sharing has been such a major success, last April I
proposed a 5-year 9-month extension of the law. This proposal would increase
funding by almost $1 billion for a total of $39,850 million, with more than
$808 million of that going to the State of Indiana.
A year ago I urged the Congress to act quickly on this proposal, to ensure
that money will continue to be available for vital services in your own State
and in your respective local units of government. Unfortunately, the Congress
has been working in slow motion. I think that's putting it mildly.
Finally, last week a House subcommittee of the Committee on Government
Operations took the first action on revenue sharing. The full Committee on
Government Operations will consider the matter this week.
But this is only a first step. We—that is you and myself—need to keep the
pressure on the Congress until they pass a general revenue sharing bill that will
do an even better job than the one that expires December 31 of this year.
That's where I need your help. We need the help that you've given, and I
know many of you have been to Washington, talked to your Congressmen,
talked to your Senators, but the real test comes this week in the House commit-
tee and next week or the following week on the floor of the House of Repre-
sentatives. And then we go to the Senate to see what can happen there.
1421
