[580]
June 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
Department of Labor and the Department of HEW take a look at the situation.
The circumstances in 1976 are far, far better than the circumstances were a year
ago. They are not as good as we are going to have them, and I can't promise
every one of you who graduates this year the kind of a job you want, but the
opportunities are there a lot more than last year. And this administration
is going to make certain that in the years ahead those opportunities are available
for talented, well-educated, well-motivated young people, including the kind
that you are.
HUMPHREY-HAWKINS BILL
[3.] Q. Mr. President, still on the employment issue, would you please com-
ment on the Humphrey-Hawkins act?
THE PRESIDENT. The question is, what do I think about the Humphrey-Haw-
kins bill. Let me say very categorically, I don't think it will work. Therefore, I
am against it.
Let me tell you why. They have some unrealistic aims and objectives. They
have the wrong way to go about it, and it will be absolutely inflationary because
it will put a heavier and heavier burden on the Federal Treasury, adding to the
deficit which inevitably means more and more and more inflation. It is a bad
program for the solution of our problems here in America.
INVESTIGATION OF AMERICAN BUSINESS ACTIVITIES IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES
[4.] Q. Mr. President, in March you set up a Cabinet-level task force to in-
vestigate the recent bribery scandals. Has Mr. Richardson or that task force re-
ported their findings to you, and if so, how do you tend to lead the American
multinational corporations regarding this question?
THE PRESIDENT. About 2 months ago I appointed Secretary of Commerce
Richardson to head a task force to study the problem of bribery by American
business in foreign countries. It is a matter that we have to resolve if our Ameri-
can businessmen are going to be able to compete and live within the law of those
countries and the United States.
I imposed on them a demand that they report to me every quarter. The first
quarter has not expired, but I can assure you that it is a top-level group. And
most of you know of the absolute integrity and the capability of Secretary of
Commerce Richardson. We expect an answer probably some time by around the
first of July, and I can assure you his recommendations will be carried out by
this administration to stop American business bribing in foreign countries or in
the United States.
1854
