[356]
April 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
equal, why aren't the laws consistent? My main question is concerning alcohol.
Why can you drink in New York State at 18 and 21 in this State?
Now, I know your answer is going to be States rights, but don't you think
that we could be a little more consistent in that main law, in that particular
law?
THE PRESIDENT, Well, if you—
Q. Especially if you are old enough to die for this country, why can't you
drink in this country? And I am a veteran.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, if you really believe in States rights and if you believe
that those decisions are the decisions of the people of the individual States, they
have the option or the choice to make that decision, and I don't think the Fed-
eral Government should repeat the mistake that they tried to do back in, I
think, 1918 when they made a comprehensive decision. It was up to the local
States to make that decision, now, as well as at any time in the future, and if
the people of Indiana want one age limit and the people of Michigan another,
I think in all honesty if we really believe in States rights, they ought to have the
option to make the choice one way or another.
FEDERAL HOUSING POLICY
[2] Q. Mr. President, in lieu of the present housing conditions through-
out the country, I would like to know if there are any new housing projects
planned within your administration for the near future?
THE PRESIDENT. I signed a few months ago a new housing bill that would
make a number of rather significant changes in order to stimulate the housing
industry. For example, we increased the amount that a Federal agency could
guarantee in mortgages and a number of other comparable changes that I
think would be helpful in the financing of private residences. In addition, I
put in the budget for fiscal year 1977 about, as I recall, 500,000 more Federal
units of housing, primarily for the disadvantaged.
The net result is that we expect, according to the present estimates based
on the last report in the month before, that there will be built in the United
States in this calendar year approximately 1,400,000 to 1,500,000 housing units,
which is an increase from something like 1,100,000 or 1,200,000 last year.
But as the economy gets better and as money becomes more available-and
the money is available in most loaning institutions-and as there is a trend-
slow but, I think, developing trend-for lower interest rates in the private sec-
tor, I think not only in the private sector but also in the Government subsidized
1174
