[589]
June 11
Public Papers of the Presidents
last 22 months, I vetoed 49 spending bills. A majority of the Congress sent
budget-busting, deficit-increasing spending bills down, and with the help of
people like Bob Dole, John Tower, Howard Baker, we have been able to sustain
42 of them and save the taxpayer $13 billion. And let me add, if this Democratic
Congress sends any more like that, we will veto them again and again and again
and again.
But we have turned the economy around by good economic policies. Instead of
adding people to the Federal payroll, I recommended a year ago that we have a
tax reduction. We approved a $23 billion tax reduction in 1975–25 percent went
to business, 75 percent went to individual taxpayers-and, as a result, the econ-
omy is moving in the right direction.
But in order to keep that momentum going, I have recommended that the
Congress approve another $10 billion tax reduction, beginning July 1, including
an increase in the personal exemption from $750 to $1,000. The taxpavers deserve
it.
But I also recommended-and this is something that is very fundamental-
that we increase the estate tax exemption from $60,000 to $150,000, so that fam-
ily farms, so that small businesses could go from one generation to another
without the taxpayer grabbing all of the work and the love and affection that
people have. And I am glad to report to you that Senator Dole said to me on the
way out here that the Senate Committee on Finance, in effect, has recom-
mended that that proposal be included in the tax legislation which will be on
the Senate floor next week. One provision which is vitally important: Under
current law, when a husband passes property to his wife or vice versa, there is
a Federal estate tax imposed. Under my proposition, those transfers are nontax-
able, as they should be.
I am pleased to stand here in this great city of Springfield in the State of Mis-
souri and say to you that not a single American boy is fighting and dying on
foreign soil. We have peace, we have the military capability to maintain it, and
under the Ford administration, because we are strong, we are going to keep it.
I am the first President since Ike ran in 1956 who could go to the American
people and say, I want your votes. We have peace. We don't have a war that the
United States is engaged in. That's progress by any standard.
So, I come to you in Springfield and ask for your help and assistance. I can
be elected. I can help elect other Republicans from the courthouse to the
Congress. That's the way you build a two-party system in Missouri and the
other 49 States.
1870
