June 3
[552]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Q. Mr. President, did your objections to the House Government Operations
Committee bill go beyond the time and the dollar amount?
THE PRESIDENT. My objections are the short time. I think it ought to be ex-
tended for 5¾¼ years. I think the provision that existed in the present general
revenue sharing legislation for the handling of the financing is the right ap-
proach. It was pointed out in a meeting by Governors as well as mayors that if
we went through the regular appropriation process it would be very, very
difficult for them to handle the prospect or the lack of prospect of money in
the future.
In addition, it seems to me that I recommended the growth of $150 million
a year, which takes into account the inflationary aspects that we would anticipate
each year for the next 5 years. The full committee bill does not provide for
any growth. It, in fact, freezes the amount at the present level. So, there are
other objections besides the two that you mentioned.
Q. Mr. President, just as Jack Brooks got up to speak, our microphones went
dead down here. We did not hear what he had to tell you.
THE PRESIDENT. I think Congressman Brooks' views are well known. He has
been against general revenue sharing; he was in 1972; he is opposed to it in
1976. So, I don't think you needed any amplification of Congressman Brooks'
views. He holds them very strongly, and we respect them. We just think he is
wrong.
Q. Mr. President, how important was this meeting in your strategy to secure
a revenue sharing bill that you think is a good bill?
THE PRESIDENT. I think it was very important because the request for the
meeting came from the New Coalition, which indicates their concern. And it
gave me an opportunity to put in the same room the people who are strongly
urging the extension of the legislation, as I recommended it, and some of the
people in the Congress who either want to cripple it or defeat it altogether.
Q. Mr. President, may I ask you a question? Are you displeased with what
Mr. Reagan has purportedly said about possibly getting involved in Rhodesia,
possibly sending troops to Rhodesia? How do you feel about that?
The President. I feel that it was responsible for me to send the Secretary of
State to southern Africa to try and negotiate the settlement of those problems.
They are serious, and it was far more responsible for me to send our Secretary of
State there, as I did, to solve those problems by negotiation rather than to
threaten or to indicate the possibility of sending American troops to southern
Africa to settle the problem.
Q. So, you disagree with Governor Reagan ?
1781
