[398]
April 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
398
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session at a Public Forum
in Dallas. April 30, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Ed, Senator Tower, Mayor Folsom, Russ Perry,
Tom Unis, Tom Landry, our distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
It is a great privilege and a very high honor for me to have the opportunity
of participating in this meeting of the Dallas Chamber of Commerce. Many of
you may have been in the audience a few weeks ago when I spoke to the SMU
[Southern Methodist University] Business Management Seminar at the Fair-
mont Hotel. If you were, you know that I am pretty optimistic about the eco-
nomic recovery underway in the United States today.
Furthermore, there has been more and more and more good economic news
compared to last year and I'm reading about it more and more and, frankly,
liking it better and better. And, I think, so are 215 million other Americans.
With the help of some very commonsense, down-to-Earth policies that I
initiated at the opening of the recession-such as policies for tax cuts for
individuals, tax incentives for business expansion and job production, and
extended assistance for those Americans who lost their jobs during the
recession-the American people today are working their way back to prosperity
after the worst recession in 40 years.
We are celebrating our Bicentennial Year with more cause for hope, more
reasonable expectations of economic progress than even the optimists would
have dared to imagine just a few short months ago. It's very encouraging to know,
as we look back over the past 12 months, that the American people did not panic
in the face of adversity and the American private enterprise system did not
fail to respond to one of its greatest and most complex problems. For that, some
215 million Americans—including all of you in the Dallas area-have my
congratulations and my thanks and appreciation.
As I indicated a few moments ago, every week now we are hearing more and
more good economic news. Just last week it was announced that the gross
national product for the first quarter of 1976 rose at an annual rate of 7½ percent.
The Consumer Price Index for the first quarter of this year rose at the annual
rate of only 2.9 percent, the lowest rate of inflation since the summer of 1972.
Eighty-six million seven hundred thousand Americans are today at work,
and that means more Americans are gainfully employed in March of 1976 than
1346
