May 14
[479]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
sustained, and we saved $13 billion of the American taxpayers' money. That
is our track record. Of course, I got a lot of help from Howard and Jimmy
and some of the other staunch people, because we have to get a third in order
to achieve that result-so we did.
What are the facts now? Twelve months after a serious drop into the depths
of a recession we are on the way up, and everything that is supposed to be going
up is going up, and everything that is supposed to be going down is going down.
The rate of inflation has been cut better than 50 percent, and if you take the
first 3 months of this year, we have cut it 75 percent from the high of 1974. We
added 3,300,000 more people in our labor market in the last 12 months, includ-
ing 710,000 in the last 30 days. So, the whole momentum is really surging for a
good, prosperous future for this country, and I think I had something to do
with it.
I have one quick other comment. They weren't very happy days to walk
into the Oval Office on August 8 [9], 1974. The American people had lost a
lot of confidence in our Government. You all know the reasons. It has been a
long way up to where I think we have restored that confidence, and the restora-
tion of that confidence was absolutely essential to get America moving again.
America is moving, and I think the restoration of confidence, trust, integrity,
candor, forthrightness has been a major factor.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:21 p.m. in the Eng-
lish Pub at the Holiday Inn Rivermont.
As printed above, this item follows the text of the
White House press release.
480
Remarks at a Republican Party Reception in Memphis.
May 14, 1976
THANK YOU very, very much, Howard. I also want to thank Jim Quillen
and your Governor, Winfield Dunn, who have accompanied me today as we
have traveled from Johnson City to here in Memphis. I appreciate their full
support, I appreciate their endorsement, and I likewise am deeply grateful for
your participation, your support. I am here to ask it.
I am here to urge you to support my candidacy because I think we have
got a good record. It is a record that I think is one that, if we are able to con-
tinue it for the next 4 years, will give us the kind of peace that we want and
have today, the kind of prosperity that the American people can have if we
1583
