[358]
April 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
Richardson, and I have asked that group to look into what the problem is not
only in the United States but what the problem is overseas.
Q. And not just Lockheed?
THE PRESIDENT. It is a comprehensive investigation involving all countries that
have businesses overseas and have been involved in the past in so-called payments.
It is not going to be pointed at Lockheed, it is pointed at the whole problem.
REPORTER. Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you all very, very much.
NOTE: The exchange began at 3:58 p.m.
359
Remarks at the Annual Service of the Atlanta Chapter of the
Military Order of World Wars. April 23, 1976
Thank you very much, Admiral Howell, Dr. Harrington, Colonel Williams,
Gold Star Mothers, ladies and gentlemen:
We observe today an occasion of somber reflection and grateful praise. As we
honor the mothers of men who gave their lives in the service of their country,
we have cause once again to honor the brave men themselves,
Although our hearts are still mourning the loss of loved ones, we can draw
inspiration from the knowledge that their supreme sacrifice was made in the
defense of our Nation's noblest ideals.
The fact that we stand here today as citizens of the strongest, freest, and
greatest nation on Earth is powerful testimony to the valor and courage with
which these men gave their last full measure of devotion to America.
The pages of history record the names of many brave men who led armies
into battle and to victory, and this Nation rightly reveres them. But there are
others-other names known only to those assembled here-whose contributions
were just as great, whose devotion was just as steadfast, whose sacrifice for
the cause of freedom was just as complete. They all share the same glory, won
many times over many foes in many different uniforms. Their common enemy
was always tyranny, and thanks to them that enemy has never cast its shadow
over our land.
It is by the deeds of these gallant men—by heralded acts of bravery and by
unknown acts of quiet courage-that freedom flourishes in America today. It
is their legacy that government "of the people, by the people and for the people"
still thrives in America in 1976.
1186
