April 13
[339]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
I can, as they send down appropriation bills or authorization bills, veto them.
I vetoed 48 bills so far, and we have had 39 of them sustained, saving some $13
billion in Federal expenditures. And if they send down appropriation bills of
the magnitude that is reflected in their spending ceilings, the likelihood is that
I will veto them. And I think we will get the Congress to sustain them because
the Congress is getting a little more responsible on spending matters.
I really think that from the overall point of view of the economy, a tax
reduction of the magnitude I have discussed, plus a spending level that I have
proposed, is far better from the point of view of the economy, and we are going
to do our best to achieve it.
DEMOCRATIC PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE
[11.] Q. Mr. President, you were talking a moment ago of your formidable
Republican opponent. I would like to ask you if you expect Jimmy Carter to be
your Democratic opponent?
THE PRESIDENT. I will stick with my Democratic candidate, and I am trying
hard to get him nominated—[laughter]—been doing it for a year. I still think
Senator Hubert Humphrey will be the Democratic nominee.
JIMMY CARTER'S REMARKS ON HOUSING
[12.] Q. Do you think that this much-talked-about remark by Governor
Carter about ethnic purity of neighborhoods has hurt him in a political sense?
The President. The real test of that will come in the Pennsylvania primary,
which comes April 27. That will be a test as to whether that remark will have
any impact on the support that he has heretofore gotten in the black communi-
ties of the various States.
There is a very substantial black population in Pennsylvania-Philadelphia,
and in Pittsburgh, and some other areas. I think whether that comment will
have an impact or not will be determined very precisely by that primary.
ADMINISTRATION'S HOUSING POLICIES
[13.] Q. On that point, what is your own view of open housing and the
lengths or the steps the Federal Government should take to bring that about?
The President. In the first place, I would not use that term to describe any
of my policies, period. I do feel that an ethnic heritage is a great treasure of
this country, and I don't think that Federal action should be used to destroy
that ethnic treasure.
Number two, under existing laws as to housing, as to education, as to where
1127
