May 5
[430]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
the bill would still result in substantial outstanding authorizations being avail-
able during fiscal year 1977, I believe it is important for Congress to take separate
action to place an obligation ceiling on the Federal-aid highway program at
least through fiscal year 1977. Further, new activities authorized in this legisla-
tion will be carefully scrutinized before any requests for additions to the budget
are sent to Congress.
For more than 25 years in National Government, in both the legislative and
executive branches, I have been a firm supporter of the highway program. As
a Member of Congress in 1956, I voted for the landmark legislation which
established the Highway Trust Fund. I have been deeply involved in the legis-
lative process over the past two decades as the highway program has been ex-
panded and made more responsive to local transportation needs. It is a privilege
to be serving as President today and to sign legislation extending and improving
this important program. A spirit of cooperation between this administration
and the Congress enabled all parties to arrive at an acceptable bill which permits
a vital program to continue. We will continue to work with the Congress to seek
better, long-term solutions to our national transportation problems as the Nation
enters its third century.
430
Statement on Senate Action Sustaining Veto of the Child Day
Care Bill. May 5, 1976
I AM pleased that the Senate has voted to sustain my veto of H.R. 9803, the
Child Day Care Services under title XX of the Social Security Act.¹
As I have said before, this legislation would have run counter to a basic
principle of government important to all Americans—the vesting of responsi-
bility in State and local government and the removal of burdensome Federal
regulations in areas where State and local government can best meet the needs
of their citizens.
I congratulate the Members of the Senate from both parties who resisted
heavy pressure to vote for this bill and voted instead for good government and
fiscal responsibility.
¹ For a statement on House action overriding the President's veto, see Item 424.
1473
