May 14
[484]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
in 1976. But I am not here to talk about races, horses or political. I came here
to tell you my deep concern and feeling about defense and military preparedness.
The first person to address this very distinguished organization at the first
Armed Services banquet in 1919 was the great General John J. Pershing.
Pershing spoke after the end of World War I-a war that had found America
unprepared. Pershing knew what it meant to go to war unprepared. He had
seen for himself the terrible price it had cost in American blood spilled in the
trenches of France.
Like any other military commander, Pershing wanted his fighting forces
held together as a single American unit but, at first, he was forced to split off
some of his divisions to fight alongside the British and French forces.
The question is legitimate: Why was that? One very important reason: The
American expeditionary force had no tanks, and in 1917 tanks were rapidly
changing the nature of the battlefield. Tanks were the decisive punch in any
attack in World War I.
Our fighting forces have come a long, long way since those days. Speaking
here tonight, not 30 miles from the armor center of the United States Army at
Fort Knox, let me say tanks today are a critical element of the American
ground combat capability. As we saw, vividly saw, in the 1973 Middle East war,
the tanks played a central role in ground combat.
And as part of our budget for fiscal year 1977, which I submitted to the
Congress in January of this year, we are going to make sure that American
soldiers have nothing but the best in this very crucial area. That budget calls
for the purchase of better than 30 percent more tanks in the budget for fiscal
year 1975.
We have gone from a single line of production to a second line and, if
necessary, to meet the requirements, we will go to a third line. And we are now
testing advanced tanks to select the very, very best that can be provided to the
American soldier.
We can also look with great confidence to our substantial arsenal of the
world's most effective antitank systems, both air as well as ground. American
technology and American skills have made us the foundation of the free world's
military might, but we must use that great resource to stay ahead.
Research and development is an important, very crucial element, and in my
fiscal year 1977 budget, I recommended a billion dollars more, or an 11-percent
increase in Defense Department research and development. With this kind of
money, we can do the job.
If you look at the record, you will find that we have laid the keel for the
1593
