[535]
May 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
if he or his associates feel there has been any violation of law, under his oath of
office, he will undertake that responsibility.
PUBLIC REACTION TO CONGRESSIONAL MISUSE OF PUBLIC FUNDS
[11.] Q. My next question is-you indicated that you didn't see how this
could hurt you in any way-my question is, do you think this will hurt the
Congress in campaign '76, those incumbents who are running for reelection?
THE PRESIDENT. Those who are not involved I don't think will be adversely
affected. I think that, as far as I know, one individual is involved. I can't see how
it would be detrimental to those who have no part or have had no connection
with it.
CONDUCT OF FOREIGN POLICY BY FORD ADMINISTRATION
[12.] Q. Mr. President, do you think some of Ronald Reagan's popularity in
the primaries is due to his attitude the United States should conduct foreign
policy from a strong posture rather than the conciliatory position evident in the
last few months, and what would be your reaction to a charge that the program
is conciliatory?
THE PRESIDENT. First, I want to deny most emphatically that this administra-
tion has been less than forthright and strong in the conduct of its foreign policy.
We have been very strong, and let me cite you an illustration.
Back in December, when we knew that the Cubans were getting involved in
Angola and we knew the Soviet Union wanted to be very helpful with some
$200 million of military equipment, the President Ford administration took a
strong position. Regrettably, the Congress didn't stand up and support us. So, the
Ford administration was in the forefront, and any charge or allegation to the
effect that this administration is anything but forthright and strong in the con-
duct of foreign policy hasn't studied the record.
So, I can assure you, because we have been strong, because we have been forth-
right, we have been able to convince our allies that we were reliable, and we have
been able to convince our adversaries that we mean business.
Now, the Ford administration has repeatedly believed that if we can negotiate
it is better than going to war, and I can assure you that we will negotiate, but
negotiate from a position of strength rather than a position of weakness.
ALTERNATIVES TO SCHOOL BUSING
[13.] Q. Mr. President, I was wondering if you could give us some hints
about these alternatives that you are considering to forced busing. I just won-
1752
