[442]
May 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
such problems as the energy crisis, the environmental controls that we have to
contend with, and OSHA, agriculture has met these demands in the past—and
I was very encouraged to hear you talk this evening about the research bill
that you are funding. Would you please give us a little more information on this
as to what it will be to support?
THE PRESIDENT. Doctor, that bill that you mentioned was legislation spon-
sored by Congressman John Melcher of the State of Montana. What he wanted
to do was take out of the total research budget for the Department of Agricul-
ture and say this particular part should be firm, inflexible, and everything else
had to then be divided up.
I was advised by the top people who were the research experts that it would
be inadvisable to make an arbitrary cut just for one segment of agricultural
research and to let everybody else fight for what was left, and because I think
the research experts ought to have flexibility-one year the problem you raised
may be the most important; the next year some other agricultural research
project might be far more important. And it seems to me if we have good people
in agricultural research in the Department of Agriculture, they ought to be able
to make the kind of decisions that are sound in the research field. And I do know
that whoever is in charge does get the advice and counsel from the agricultural
research people around the country at the time they put their budget together.
And on the basis of their recommendation in November, I increased the De-
partment of Agriculture research budget by $21 million as I indicated in my
remarks.
Now, from my experience in the Congress, I think rather than categorize
how much in each area, you ought to give more money and you ought to give
flexibility to the experts. And may I add a feature about research and develop-
ment which is a very important part of our Federal Government's overall
effort: The Federal Government-in the budget that I submitted this last
January to the Congress, includes about $26 billion in just plain research. That's
across all departments. It's an 11-percent increase in research, both applied as
well as basic research. And as the $21 million figure indicates, agriculture got
its fair share of that increase.
Now, the problems that we are trying solve most dramatically come in the
field of energy. I increased the energy research funds by about 35 to 40 per-
cent. We substantially increased the funds for solar research. We substantially
increased the funds for the kind of projects which I know the people in
Nebraska and Kansas are interested in, windmill projects. Now, those are not
projects that will have a big payoff right away, but they are projects we have
1500
