[427]
May 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
Q. Mr. President, you don't mean to suggest that the White House is out of
this reassessment altogether and that it will fall entirely on the PFC. Surely,
you must have some strong thoughts of what is required of you and of the
administration?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the administration is looking at it, but the basic study
will be done by the PFC under Rogers Morton.
Q. Mr. President, following your victory in Wisconsin, you said that that
vote justified your faith in Henry Kissinger. What have the last four primaries
done to your faith in Henry Kissinger?
The President. We are in the process of analyzing the total picture, not just
one issue. I can't give you any immediate assessment as to what issue or whether
all of the issues had a contributing factor, but I certainly wouldn't say that the
result in Indiana or the other two States can be attributed to foreign policy alone.
I'm sure it was a combination of many, many things.
Q. Mr. President, in your reassessment, what parts of the campaign do you
feel were not going well, and why?
THE PRESIDENT. I can't tell you why. I think we have a good program. I think
we have done a fine job on the economy. I believe we have restored integrity in
the White House. We have restored confidence of the American people in, I
believe, the conduct of the Presidency. I believe that we have made success
around the world in our day-to-day operations of foreign policy. We have peace;
we are going to keep peace.
Q. Do you expect to win on the first ballot, Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT. I think we will go to Kansas City, Helen [Helen Thomas,
United Press International], and win. I have no doubt about that whatsoever.
With only two candidates there, that's about the way it sorts out.
Q. Mr. President, did you mean to suggest that if the analysis proves that
Henry Kissinger was an issue in the losing primaries that his tenure is somehow
in doubt?
THE PRESIDENT. Not at all. Not at all.
Q. Mr. President, are you concerned about your own home State? How do
you feel about the crossover problem and George Wallace's past performances
there?
THE PRESIDENT. I am not going to comment on any individual State. I said
we will win in Kansas City, and that means that we expect to win our full share
of the contests between now and the middle of August.
Q. Mr. President, do you feel you have been hurt on the Panama Canal issue?
THE PRESIDENT. If we have, I don't think it's a legitimate decision, because
1470
