May 15
[485]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
[At this point, the President left the train to greet the community welcoming committee
and members of the public audience. Upon reboarding the train, the President made addi-
tional remarks as follows:]
Betty and I are deeply grateful for this wonderful welcome back home, and
we thank you very, very much.
This is a wonderful train trip through the heart of Michigan. It's just for 1
day, but it's the beginning of a great trip from now to November 2, when we
are going to win the election.
I want to thank particularly the people who have helped here in Durand and
all of the surrounding area.
But, let me say very emphatically, I need your help on Tuesday, and if you
give us the help that I know you will, it will be a tremendous impact through-
out the country. I won't let Michigan down. Don't you let me down on Novem-
ber 2 or next Tuesday.
Now, let me take just a minute to tell you why I want you to support me.
First, when I became President in August of 1974, this country was in deep
trouble. There was a lack of confidence in the White House. There had been
scandals. There had been a tremendous disaffection by the American people.
Secondly, we were suffering inflation of 12 percent, and we were on the
brink of the worst economic conditions for the last 40 years. Unemployment
was about to go up; employment was about to go down. And our allies abroad
were uncertain, and our adversaries were concerned as to what we might do
under the circumstances.
What are the results of 21 months of Jerry Ford as President of the United
States? We have restored trust in the White House. We have been open. We
have been candid. We have been forthright. We have talked straight to the
American people. And the net result is there is a restoration of trust by the
American people in their Presidency. I think that deserves the support of the
American people.
But let's take a look at the economic circumstances that have taken place in
the last 21 months. We have reduced the rate of inflation from 12 percent to
under 3 percent. That's a 75-percent cutback. That's a good record, and it ought
to be supported by the American people.
Twelve months ago, we were in the worst economic conditions this country
had had for 40 years, but what has happened in the last 12 months? We have
added 3,300,000 jobs. We have now in America 87,400,000 people working, an
alltime high. It's not good enough, but it is a record. And we're going to do
better in the next 4 years with your help.
1599
