[502]
May 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
It's been my privilege to travel in every one of our 50 States, and I found that
some States have mountain ranges; some border on the ocean; some have very
fertile valleys, broad forests, and sparkling rivers. And in some you can ski,
and in others you can swim.
But here in Oregon you have it all. You were the first State in the history of
America to hold primary elections, which I mention not only because of its
historic interest but because it's a way of getting into the subject that I would
like to speak to you about on this beautiful day here in Library Park.
I am asking my fellow Americans for their support because I have done a
good job for the last 21 months under the most difficult circumstances. Because
I have achieved and maintained the peace, moved America on the road to
prosperity, and restored confidence and trust in the Presidency, I want a man-
date next Tuesday from Oregon and the American people to finish that job
in the next 4 years.
Consider for a moment where we were in the very first days and months of
my Presidency. Take yourself back to August 8 of 1974. You will recall that
some well-known economists, labor and political leaders were predicting that
we were heading into a deep depression, that unemployment would soon ex-
ceed 10 percent, that only massive action by the Federal Government could
avert a tremendous catastrophe.
Inflation had soared to an annual rate of over 12 percent, interest rates were
going through the roof, far, far too many Americans were laid off and could
not find new jobs.
Just about a year ago, we hit the bottom of the worst recession in 40 years.
Many were urging me in the White House to push the panic button. In the
Congress, the economic downturn set off a clamor for huge emergency Federal
subsidies, for more and more bigger Government programs, and higher and
higher deficit spending.
The prophets of gloom were wrong, and I knew they were wrong when
they were begging me to do this or to do that. We didn't panic in the Oval
Office. I never lost sight of a deep conviction and belief that I have-I have
had it all my political life—that a government big enough to give you every-
thing you want is a government big enough to take from you everything you
have.
We resisted the big spending schemes that would have caused larger and
larger deficits and even more and more destructive inflation. We rejected the
old political techniques of tax and tax, spend and spend, elect and elect.
I vetoed 49 bills-42 of those bills have been sustained and the taxpayers of
1638
