[593]
June 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
consistent with the principles put forward by the United States at the Second
Session of the United Nations Commission on Transnational Enterprises. I
will ask our major trading partners to give our proposed questionable payments
agreement priority consideration.
In taking these necessary steps, I wish to emphasize that I do not mean to
imply any condemnation of American business in general. To the contrary, I
am confident that the overwhelming majority of American businessmen have
conducted themselves as good citizens both at home and abroad. Unfortunately,
American business and Americans, generally, have become the victims of the
improper actions by a few-and of guilt by association.
I have decided upon the additional actions announced today as an important
way to curb spreading cynicism and to help restore confidence in basic American
institutions and principles.
594
Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual Reports of
the Six River Basin Commissions. June 15, 1976
To the Congress of the United States:
I am happy to transmit herewith the annual reports of the six river basin
commissions, as required under Section 204(2) of the Water Resources Planning
Act of 1965.
The Act states that commissions may be established, comprised of State and
Federal members, at the request of the Governors of the States within the
proposed commission area. Each commission is responsible for planning the
best use of water and related land resources in its area and for recommending
priorities for implementation of such planning. The commissions, through
efforts to increase public participation in the decisionmaking process, can and
do provide a forum for all people within the commission area to voice their
ideas, concerns, and suggestions.
The commissions submitting reports are New England, Great Lakes, Pacific
Northwest, Ohio, Missouri, and Upper Mississippi. The territory these six
cover include parts or all of 32 States.
The enclosed annual reports indicate the activities and accomplishments of
1876
