June 6
[563]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
foreseen more than 200 years ago by Alexander Hamilton. Those same natural
resources, the American earth and the American people, will ensure that his
vision of a free and prosperous nation will remain a reality for a long, long time.
Thank you. It is wonderful to be here.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:08 p.m. In his
opening remarks, he referred to Mayor Lawrence
(Pat) Kramer of Paterson, Governor Brendan T.
Byrne of New Jersey, and Edward B. Haines,
executive editor of the Paterson Evening News.
563
Remarks at a Reception for Bergen County Business and Civic
Leaders in Paterson, New Jersey. June 6, 1976
THANK YOU very, very much, Mayor Pat Kramer. I want to express my deep-
est appreciation to Congresswoman Millicent Fenwick and Congressman Ed
Forsythe and Congressman Mat Rinaldo, who are here with me. We had earlier
at the airport Senator Cliff Case. And it is wonderful to be in Paterson, first
to go to the Great Falls and the tremendous crowd and, secondly, to come to
the Kramer home and to see so many darn good Republicans, some fine In-
dependents, and some super Democrats.
Before making a few remarks, let me make this observation. Most of you
know I come from the great State of Michigan. Most of you know that anybody
coming from Michigan ought to be interested in a healthy and prosperous auto-
mobile industry. But as much as I want the automobile industry to have a prosper-
ous year in 1976, this is not the year to trade in a reliable Ford for a flashier model.
[Laughter]
On Tuesday, we have the last of 30-some primaries. I am the only Republican
candidate for the Presidency who has entered every primary. And why did I
do that? Because I want the opportunity for as many voters in this country to
have an opportunity to make a choice. I am entered in the New Jersey primary
because I want the people of the Garden State to have a chance to vote for
President Jerry Ford.
It's my understanding that my opponent did not venture into the great
State of New Jersey with his name on the ballot. I want you to know that we
have to make a massive effort between now and Tuesday in this State to make
sure, yes, that I get a good vote, to be certain and absolutely positive that the
Ford delegates get elected in every one of your congressional districts.
You know I have been in politics a few years, and I know that sometimes peo-
1807
