[518]
May 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
Republicans know very well that the only way we can achieve success in No-
vember is to have a unified party, and I will do my very best to achieve that.
REPORTER. Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you all. It is nice to see you. We look forward to being
in San Diego.
NOTE: The exchange began at 3:23 p.m. at Lindbergh Field, San Diego International Airport.
519
Remarks to Members of the San Diego Chamber of Commerce
and the San Diego Council of the Navy League. May 24, 1976
Thank you very, very much Pete, Congressman Bob Wilson, your Attorney
General, Ev Younger, Admiral Stoecklein, Evan Jones, members and guests of
the Navy League and Chamber of Commerce:
It's a great privilege and a very high honor for me to have the opportunity
of being in the beautiful city of San Diego, speaking to the Chamber of Com-
merce and the Navy League. You and I have very much in common. We share
a deep belief that our free use of the seas is fundamental to our national econ-
omy and to its security.
San Diego and the Navy have grown steadily-gone steadily together, I should
say, over the past 75 years in a very successful partnership. It's been good for
both the Navy and for San Diego. San Diego likes the Navy, and the Navy obvi-
ously likes San Diego.
This afternoon, let me share with you some of my own personal thoughts on
our naval forces, describe some of the reasons for my decisions as President, and
chart our direction for the future.
The oceans have always served the United States both as a barrier for defense
and as avenues of commerce and influence. Ninety-nine percent of our overseas
trade moves by ship. We have two States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico,
and the territories of Guam, Samoa, and the Virgin Islands linked by the sea-
lanes to the continental United States. Furthermore, the vast majority of our
allies-41 of the 43 nations with whom we have security treaties-lie overseas.
Since our neighbors to the north and south are friendly, our major strategic in-
terests and our major, general political and economic interests depend on main-
taining our access and control of the seas.
We and our allies must maintain our freedom to move over, across, and beneath
the seas. We must not only be able to protect the sealanes, we must be able to
1692
