April 30
[404]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
404
Remarks at a President Ford Committee Fundraising Reception
in Lubbock, Texas. April 30, 1976
THANK YOU very, very much, John, and again let me express my appreciation
to the president of Texas Tech for the wonderful opportunity to be over
there today. It was a wonderful audience, and I am deeply grateful, and that
medal I will prize and cherish. Thank you again.
I claim the rain, which was welcome; I am not claiming this Michigan
weather that we have right now. But it is nice to see you all, and I am deeply
grateful for Bob's hospitality and generosity, and thank you, Bob, very, very
much.
Let me take just a minute or two to say a word about something all of you
from Texas are deeply interested in and a matter that I spent a great deal of
time on since I became President in August of 1974.
At that time, we recognized that we had to do something about energy
in this country. We had the tragedy of the October war in 1973, and the net
result of an embargo and escalating oil prices for overseas customers, and the
growing, growing dependence of the United States on energy from afar, and
our need to find energy independence in this United States.
So, in January of 1975, if you will refresh your memory, I recommended to
the Congress in my State of the Union Message what I thought was a sound
and constructive long-range program for energy independence of this country.
It called for total deregulation of domestic oil production by April 1, 1975,
and it called for the deregulation of new natural gas as soon as Congress would
move on it, and we urged them to move immediately.
Unfortunately, the Congress, from January of 1975 until December of 1975,
diddled and dawdled and debated and delayed. And finally, they sent a piece of
legislation down that was far from perfect, but that is what we are operating
under at the present time. And I have committed myself publicly, as well as
otherwise, that we are going to use every single provision in that legislation to
decontrol as rapidly as possible. I think our batting record is pretty good.
We got some new definitions of property, which I think are somewhat sig-
nificant as far as your industry is concerned. We have had some other decisive
action by the FEA [Federal Energy Administration] after a little pressure and a
little persuading. So as far as the administrative action that they can take, we
are moving as rapidly as we possibly can.
1381
