[470]
May 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
Since President Dwight D. Eisenhower left office, 236 departments, agen-
cies, bureaus, commissions have been created and only 21 have been eliminated.
We have more than 1,000 different Federal programs, more than 80 regula-
tory agencies, and more than 100,000 government workers whose primary re-
sponsibility is to tell other Americans what the Congress has said they can
and cannot do.
But even with all of this control, or maybe in spite of it, government has
more often proven to be clumsy and ineffective in meeting many of America's
most serious problems. In fact, the rising cost and control of government has
itself become one of America's most serious problems. And I have been work-
ing on the solution to that problem for a long, long time-first in the Congress,
then as Vice President, and now as your President, and I hope and trust that we
can continue this job and finish it or make a lot of progress in the next 4 years.
I think you know better than I that government costs have added to infla-
tion and reduced the investment and purchasing power of businessmen as well
as individuals. Government has developed an insatiable appetite for paper and
redtape and it is choking the life out of free enterprise and individual initiative.
throughout the length and breadth of our country.
Government reporting requirements cost-I couldn't believe it-small busi-
nessmen in America $18 billion a year with the teams of lawyers and accountants
to help. Executives of large corporations may be able to cope with these reporting
requirements. One oil company alone pays 475 people to work full-time in
preparing and filing government reports. But small business executives—and
this you know far better than I-must devote many working hours each day
figuring out for themselves what each new government regulation may mean
to their business. It is time you got back to working for your customers instead
of the government. It is time the government minded its own business for a
while and let you run yours. The simple fact is that government has grown too
large, too powerful, too costly, too remote, and yet too deeply involved in the
daily lives of the American people.
Today as a part of the Bicentennial Salute to Small Business, I am issuing a
declaration of independence from the needless regulations of the Government,
and I invite all of you to join me in a new struggle for freedom in America.
In fact, the struggle has already begun. In the past year we have achieved
the most significant reform in Government regulations in three decades. At my
urging, the Congress has passed several very important new laws which begin
to reverse the trend of growing Government interference. We have opened up
the competition in the securities market for the first time since the major stock
1560
