[323]
April 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
all of you must share my very deepening concern about a new wave of drug
abuse that is affecting our Nation.
Only a few short years ago, many of you will recall the United States was
faced with a virtual epidemic of drug abuse-large quantities of opium were
coming out of poppy fields from countries such as Turkey, they were converted
into heroin in port cities in France, and from there were smuggled into the
United States. This country mounted a massive, active campaign against illicit
drug traffic, and with the cooperation of law enforcement officials, both here
and abroad, we eventually broke the back of the so-called "French Connection."
There was good reason to be pleased because, it seemed we had not only
turned the corner in drug abuse but we had also begun to make significant
strides in street crime problems. Our success, however, did not last as long as
most of us would have hoped. The base of the heroin trade has now shifted to
other countries, and today there is a renewed and alarming flow of drug traffic
into this country.
The time has now come to step up our fight, sharpen the weapons in our
arsenal, and launch a new and far more aggressive attack against this insidious
enemy. The cost of drug abuse to this Nation is staggering. And I had the
benefit of the various agencies and departments in the Federal Government give
me a 2 hour briefing earlier this week, and the information, the facts are un-
believable. Every year more than 5,000 Americans die from direct drug-related
causes. Every year more than 170,000 injuries can be directly traced to drugs.
Every year the problem of drug abuse costs up to $17 billion.
Significantly, the greatest bulk of this $17 billion is money lost through crime.
Law enforcement officials estimate that up to one-half of robberies, muggings,
burglaries, and other forms of property crimes are committed by addicts to
support their expensive and debilitating habits.
These statistics, as ominous as they are, reflect only part of the traffic total. For
every teenage child killed by a drug overdose, there are thousands and thousands
of others who do not die but continue only the motions of living. They sit in
classrooms without learning, they grow isolated from their families and from
their friends. When they should be preparing for the future, they can hardly
cope with the present.
And this disease is by no means limited to youth or to any other particular
group in our society-the suburban housewife, the worker on the assembly
line, the white-collar professional, nobody is immune.
As you know, 80 to 90 percent of the heroin coming into the United States
today has come across the border from Mexico. The problem is not an easy one
1058
