April 28
[385]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
hope that I can count on you for your support. I hope we can keep working
together to build an even better America in the months and years ahead,
because when Texans decide to do something, it gets done, and I would like
to be with you when we do it together.
Thank you very much.
Now I am delighted to have the opportunity of responding to questions from
those in the audience.
QUESTIONS
SOCIAL SECURITY PROGRAM
[1.] Q. Mr. President, you have stated that you are against using the Social
Security Trust Fund to purchase stocks and bonds in American companies. It
is estimated that this fund could possibly be exhausted some time in the 1980's.
What is your opinion on how revenue will be raised in the future?
The President. The question is, as I understood it, the Social Security Trust
Fund is in some financial jeopardy. What do I propose to do about the problem?
The facts are that we have roughly $40 billion in the Social Security Trust
Fund at the present time, money that has been paid in by withholding from
employers and employees. At the present time, because benefits have been raised
and there has not been any significant increase in revenues that have been raised
this 12-month period, there will be a $3 billion deficit between income and out-
go, and next year, unless we do something about it, the deficit will be $32 billion,
and the next year, $4 billion.
What this tells me—and I hope it tells everybody—we've got one of three
choices: We can either decrease benefits; we can either go in or dip into the
general treasury funds, which is money paid by all the taxpayers; or we can
face up to the issue and raise the payments or contributions by employers and
employees.
The proposal that I made, because I think the people who have paid in and
who are paying in and who are receiving or will receive benefits ought to have
the security that they thought they were buying—and if we are to do that, in
my judgment the best of the three alternatives is to increase the cost to the em-
ployer and the employee for each employee of about $49 per year, which I think
is the best, the fairest, and the most certain way to do it.
Otherwise, you are going to get it out of the general treasury, or you are going
1291
