April 10
[324]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
within their own family. The mysteries of growing up, of finding meaning in
life, are perhaps more baffling today than they were in much simpler times.
As adults, we cannot provide all of the answers, but we can provide a loving
and a caring home. We can provide good counsel, we can provide good com-
munities in which we can live and the children we bear can also live. And we
can show, through our own example, that life in the United States is still very
meaningful and very satisfying and very worthwhile.
Americans have always stood tall and strong against all enemies. Drug abuse
is an enemy we can, we must, and we will overcome, but it has to be a personal
and a national dedication. If we do, we can be successful. I am convinced we
want to, we will, and we must.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:36 p.m. in the
Stadium Club at Texas Stadium. In his opening
remarks, he referred to Martin L. Kahn, president
of the Irving Bar Association, John Lawrence, presi-
dent of the Texas Bar Association, and Ed Kinkeade,
chairman of the dinner.
324
Remarks at a President Ford Committee Breakfast in
Dallas. April 10, 1976
THANK YOU very, very much, John. Boy, you are in good form early this
morning. [Laughter]
Let me say very quickly but very sincerely, we had a wonderful day yesterday
and the fact that John Tower was with me and spoke up as he did this morning
was very, very helpful. And I just couldn't have a better spokesman, a better
leader in the State of Texas than John Tower. And I thank you very much.
I couldn't get a finer group of people here in Dallas than this group here. And
we thank you very much on behalf of all the efforts, all the tremendous things
you have done in organization and phone banks and the many other hard chores
that have to be done. I thank you, and I think we might surprise some people.
I had some experience doing exactly what you have all done on a number of
political campaigns. I was a young, enthusiastic volunteer for Wendell Willkie
back in 1940, and spent most of that summer trying to see that he had his oppor-
tunity in the Presidential race.
So, I know precisely what you are doing and how you are trying to do it, and
I know that it makes a difference. So, every phone call you make, every effort
you make otherwise—that one doesn't appear to have an impact, but when
1063
