[569]
June 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
be unfinished. What are the real issues that the country will face over the next
4 years? The real issues of today are not always the issues that make the head-
lines or attract the attention of campaigners.
Although we are at peace, we must consolidate this peace for ourselves and
for our children and children everywhere. We must never forget the tremen-
dous responsibility we bear as the world's strongest military and economic
power. What we do or what we fail to do can often have a very decisive impact.
Therefore, we will continue to propose defense programs to the Congress that
fully meet the requirements of our security. We can never, or we should never
in the future afford the trend of thoughtless cutbacks in defense programs. We
will vigorously resist future reductions in expenditures for adequate defenses.
Secondly, we must have the vision and the courage to use that strength, with
diplomacy, to build a better world for our children and our children every-
where. We must conduct an imaginative, bold diplomacy that shows creative
American leadership instead of just reacting to events as they come.
Thirdly, we must move ahead on the road of economic recovery, strengthen-
ing our economy, guarding against inflation, and working with other nations
to promote global economic expansion. With the emergence of new nations
and the economic impact of the Communist countries, major changes have
taken place in the world's economic situation. We must adjust the world
economy for these new conditions.
These basic issues are one of the subjects the leaders of the major industrial
democracies will discuss at Puerto Rico in a few weeks, a conference that I
called to follow on from the one held last fall in Rambouillet, France. I envisage
further such summits in the future. We will reach important agreements, in
my judgment, in the multilateral trade negotiations in Geneva. We will con-
tinue discussions with our major partners on strengthening the monetary
system.
Fourth, our alliances with the great industrial democracies must be relevant
to the concerns of a new era, an era of economic issues, an era of intensified
negotiations with adversaries. We must maintain our unity in these positive
endeavors as we maintained it in periods of threatening danger. This means
cooperation on a more equal basis among allies and a regular practice of close
consultation. I will continue my practice of frequent contacts with my col-
leagues, the leaders of our major allies in Europe, Canada, and Japan.
It is now clear that relations with our adversaries must be managed on a
long-term basis. We have successfully maintained the balance of power, but
where do we go from here? The answer is carefully planned, patient efforts to
1822
