May 3
[421]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
me so much here this afternoon is that I see so many young people, young
Americans, who are already stepping in to take over the reins of government,
of industry, and professions. I am proud to say that my own White House staff
that's with me here today averages under 35 years of age.
I have more pride in each and every one of them than I can express, and I
think they represent all the young people here today, and they give me tremen-
dous help and assistance as all of you can give to this great country in the months
and years ahead.
I deeply believe in America's young people above all else. In 200 years we
have forged from a struggling group of colonies to the greatest nation in the
history of the world. Our progress in every field has been unprecedented, and
much of that progress has always been due to the strength and to the character
of young Americans.
A lot of detractors are saying we're becoming a second-rate nation. But when
I look out over this crowd, you're number one. Because of that, I can say without
any hesitation, qualification, I am proud to be an American and proud of
America.
Over the last 2 years America has been challenged as rarely before. We faced
the worst economic recession in 40 years; we beat it. We faced many, many
challenges to peace in the world. We are still at peace, and we are going to stay
at peace by being strong and affirmative and constructive with our allies through-
out the world. We faced a crisis of confidence in government, and that confidence
and that integrity in the White House have been restored.
The challenges of the future will be even greater. Today's generation of Ameri-
cans must face those challenges as our parents and as our grandparents met
theirs—with courage, with sacrifice, with determination, but always with love
of our country and our God.
God bless all of you. All of you here today and all the other Americans
throughout Alabama and all over America, it's my great honor to be your Presi-
dent. With your faith and your support we will fill the future with hope, with
great achievement, and the progress that will keep America number one for
generations to come.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:57 p.m. at Wilson Park.
1459
