May 12
[461]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Here is a legitimate question: Where would the country be today if we had
had a President in the last 21 months who had signed all of those bills into law?
We would be in dire trouble. We are now engaged in a great national debate
between our two great political parties and within them over the role of the
government in the lives of individuals, how much government can or should do
for the people, and how best to go about it.
The Federal Government can create the economic climate and the incentives
to ensure continued recovery through changes in tax policy and other programs
which encourage the creation of productive, permanent jobs in private indus-
try, and that's what I have done. Or the Congress, on the other hand, can vote
more and more money for the Federal Government to create jobs itself. This
is what the opposition proposes. Make-work programs are a well-known throw-
back to the Great Depression and, if adopted, they would substantially add to
our Federal deficit and increase the inflationary load that each and every one
of us must bear.
The best place to examine the issue and to see the differences is in the two
Federal budgets for fiscal year 1977; one proposed by the President and the other
proposed by the Congress. This year, for the very first time, there is not one
Federal budget recommendation but two-mine as President and the congres-
sional budget to be adopted by the House and the Senate within the next few
days. The differences in the two budgets tell a very vivid and dramatic story.
They, the Congress, want to spend $413 billion in the next 12 months, in the
next fiscal year. I propose $395 billion, saving $18 billion in unneeded Federal
expenditures. Their budget, the congressional budget, being voted on in the
House today, authorizes $454,200 million in new long term spending. Mine
would hold this commitment to $431 billion, saving some $23 billion.
Simply stated, my goal is the full restoration of the United States economy
as the world's most reliable engine for producing an ever-increasing standard
of living and an economic climate in which every American who wants a
job, who wants to work, can find a good job.
But putting America back to work is not a job for the President alone or as
a matter of fact for the Congress alone, though sometimes some Senators and
some Congressmen seem to think they can abolish unemployment by passing
new laws such as the deceptive, and I think dangerous, Humphrey-Hawkins
bill now pending in the Congress.
This bill is a classic example of the way the misguided majority in recent
Congresses has tried to apply discredited remedies to our economy. The Hum-
phrey-Hawkins boondoggle would decree that unemployment must be no
1537
