[378]
April 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
ginning to move faster and faster and faster, with everything that's supposed
to be going down going down, and everything that's supposed to be going up
going up, and with our overall policy of defense and foreign policy, I think we
have a very good chance of upsetting my opponent. And we're sure going to try.
PRESIDENT'S RELIGIOUS COMMITMENT
[11.] Q. Mr. President, my question is twofold. Do you believe the Bible
is the inspired word of God and is truth when it says that Jesus Christ is King
of Kings and Lord of Lords? Are you personally committed to Jesus Christ as
King of your life? And as a political leader, will you commit your life to make
Christ's principles the standard for all your decisions, whether judicial, legisla-
tive, executive, or personal?
THE PRESIDENT. The answer, without getting into the details, is yes. I have
been, as a part of my own parents' family and as a part of our family, I think,
been deeply committed. I have especially committed myself, and I think the
decisions that I make every day have to be related to a higher authority than
just what we as humans do.
And in my opinion, this is the way that all of us can get the kind of help that's
needed and necessary in the future.
I will take one more.
SCHOOL BUSING AND FEDERAL AID TO EDUCATION
[12.] Q. Mr. President, your opponent has brought out that busing-he
would do away with busing and spend the money that he is using-that they
are presently using for busing to have better education. Now, what is your
stand on this, and do you believe that in your proposed budget that you are
going to use more money for education?
THE PRESIDENT. First, let me answer the last. In the Federal budget that I
submitted for fiscal year 1977, in the field of primary and secondary education,
I recommended $3,400 million, which was a $200 million increase over the
current fiscal year. So, yes, we have recommended more money for primary and
secondary education.
Number two, I have long said that the aim and objective is quality educa-
tion. I believe there is a better answer to quality education than forced busing
under court order to achieve racial balance.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:02 a m. in the Wag
staff Gymnasium. In his opening remarks, he re-
ferred to Dr Harry E. Jenkins, president, and Jack
Flock, chairman of the board Í trustees, Tyler
Junior College.
1262
