[356]
April 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
VISITORS TO THE WHITE HOUSE
[7.] Q. Mr. President, my name is John Berkshire. Our family has just re-
turned from a visit to Washington D.C., where we toured the White House. My
little brother wants to know if you ever get to sit in the chairs in the rooms we
saw. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. I want to be very sure I understand that question. [Laughter]
Am I going to keep the seat in the chairs where you and your brother saw them?
That is why I didn't want to answer you.
Q. No. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. AS I understand it, do I ever sit in the chairs that you sat in,
is that correct?
Q. No, the ones that we saw behind the ropes. [Laughter]
The President. Well, why don't you come back to Washington, and we will
go down there in person.
EQUALITY IN SCHOOL ATHLETIC PROGRAMS
[8.]_~_Q. Mr. President, I would like to know what your feelings are toward
the way the Federal Government is doing everything for everybody, and to be
very specific, how do you feel about the title IX law that will be introduced into
the school systems next year stating that all gym classes will be coed?
THE PRESIDENT, Well, it is my understanding, based on a law passed by the
Congress, that the Department of HEW had to issue certain regulations indicat-
ing that in all educational programs in primary, secondary, and higher educa-
tion there had to be equality in the treatment of men and women or boys and
girls.
Now, this was mandated by a law passed by the Congress. I believe that some
of the interpretations given to those regulations which were mandated have gone
too far, and it is my impression that when we get down to the practicality of im-
posing those regulations which, I insist, were mandated by the Congress, there
hopefully will be some readjustments.
The enthusiasm that the Congress had when it passed that legislation I think
has dimmed a little bit. Now, these regulations that they mandated are creating,
I think, some unworkable circumstances.
Now, I am not saying all of the regulations are bad, but the one that you, for
example, indicate, it seems to me, is not beneficial for either boys or girls in
physical education classes. I think there ought to be equity in the treatment of
facilities and coaches and competition and everything else for women and men
1178
