[447]
May 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
House. In the 81st Congress in 1949, I was a very freshman Member of the
House of Representatives, and on the minority side, President Truman had seen
to that in 1948. I had been assigned a place at the very bottom of the seniority
ladder on the Public Works Committee, and one day President Truman invited
all of us down to visit him at the White House. He greeted us very warmly and
asked if we would like a personally guided tour through the House. And we
got the full lecture; not just the public rooms, but upstairs through the family
living quarters.
President Truman explained all the portraits, pointed out all the changes
made by First Ladies, all the way back to Abigail Adams. But the tour wasn't
all ancient history. The President also showed us the hole in the floor in Mar-
garet's sitting room where her spinet piano attempted to obey the law of gravity.
He stood us under the crystal chandelier that almost crashed down in the mid-
dle of an East Room reception. He pointed to the swayback ceiling of the
State Dining Room, which he said was only held up by the force of habit, not
gravity. We were all so tremendously impressed. We thanked President
Truman, and trooped back up to Capitol Hill and promptly voted him every
penny of the $5,400,000 he wanted to completely renovate the White House.
So, I broke all the anti-spending promises of my first campaign, and I
want to testify here today that I am glad and grateful for President Truman's
foresight and concern for future occupants of that beautiful and historic House.
Betty and I especially enjoy the Truman balcony.
There is a serious side, of course, to the story of President Truman's skill
in lobbying the whole Public Works Committee. He was proud of his powers
of persuasion, and he often said the President was the only person in Washing-
ton whose job is to lobby on behalf of all of the American people.
As a Senator from Missouri, he had to look after the special interest of his
State. But, when he became President, he had to think about the interests of
the whole country. That sometimes got him into trouble with the Congress-
he conceded that very openly--and with political critics, not only in my party
but from both the left and the right of his party. "When a President does not
have a fight or two with Congress"-President Truman wrote in his memoirs-
"you know there is something very wrong."
Although I was on the other side of many contests with him, I now know how
President Truman felt. I am still trying, but I have a long way to go, to beat his
post-war record of 250 vetoes.
Differ though we did on a lot of issues, I completely agree with President Tru-
1514
