June 7
[580]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
business-goes from the husband to the wife or from the wife to the husband,
there is no Federal estate tax that has to be paid.
Now, let me say that the job isn't done because we have got to sell 535 Mem-
bers of the House and the Senate, or at least the majority of them. Give me some
help. We will get the job done.
I talked about confidence and trust. I talked about the progress we have made
in the economy and how we are going to keep it moving. Now, let's talk about
peace. When I became President we were still engaged in a long and costly and
tragic conflict some 8,000 miles from here. That war is over. We have peace. And
we have the military capability, we have the diplomatic skill to maintain that
peace. And the Ford administration is going to keep the peace.
Let me just talk about how we are going to do it. First, we have strengthened
our relationships with the NATO allies in Western Europe. The NATO forces
today economically, diplomatically, militarily are stronger and more competent
to meet any challenge from the Warsaw Pact. We have strengthened our rela-
tionships with our allies in the Pacific, the Japanese and the others who have
stood with us over the years. We are continuing to make progress and headway
with 800 million people in the Government of the People's Republic of China.
We are meeting with the Soviet Union to try and put a cap on the nuclear
weapons that could, as we all know, start a holocaust that could destroy man-
kind. I happen to think it makes much more sense to negotiate rather than to
confront.
There isn't a scintilla of evidence that the Ford administration has given up
anything to the Soviet Union or to the People's Republic of China. We can talk.
We can discuss. Let me give you an illustration of something that we did and
got some success with. For 25 years American Presidents have been trying to
negotiate the peaceful experiments in nuclear explosions. We have been trying
for 25 years to get onsite inspection in the Soviet Union, to see whether they
were living up to those agreements. I just signed, about 10 days ago, a negotiated
settlement that gives the United States the right to make certain, to make posi-
tive in the Soviet Union, that the agreement they signed is lived up to, and that
is progress under this administration.
Let me tell you about a meeting that we're going to have down in Puerto Rico
the latter part of this month called Rambouillet II. Last November, it was de-
cided that the heads of government of West Germany, of France, of Italy, from
Japan and Great Britain and the United States, ought to meet to see what we
could do to coordinate our economic efforts so that the depressions or recessions,
whatever they were, in those countries and in America, could be ended as quickly
1851
