April 23
[362]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
States was importing about 32 percent of its total domestic use of oil, and let me
tell you what the facts are today.
Our production in America is going down, and we are importing more and
more foreign oil, most of it Arab oil, and today instead of importing 33 per-
cent of the oil we use, we are importing 40 or 41 percent of it, and it's prob-
ably going to get worse because the Congress has not acted affirmatively on what
I think was a sound energy program that we recommended in January of 1975.
The thrust of the program that I proposed was to increase our conserva-
tion measures and to stimulate more domestic production of both oil as well
as gas. We have made some progress in conservation, not as much as we should.
In 1975 the latest statistics show that we used roughly 2½ to 3 percent less
energy than we did in 1974, so that is some progress because heretofore we had
been going up at the rate of about 5 percent more energy use every year. But
where we have failed is in not getting more production, and the only way you
can get more production of domestic oil and gas is to take government regula-
tion off of it. In January of 1975, I said we should deregulate natural gas—
Congress has not done it yet. The Senate passed a bill, the House fouled one up,
and the net result is they won't pass one in 1976. Two years lost.
In 1975, I recommended that by April 1 of that year we have total deregula-
tion of American oil production. They finally sent me, 9, 11 months later, a
marginally acceptable bill, that instead of getting deregulation on April 1, 1975,
we have to do it in a series of steps over a 40-month period.
The problem is that we don't seem to realize—or Congress doesn't, I think
the American people are smarter than they are—they don't seem to realize that
every day and every week and every month we delay in getting the stimulant to
more domestic production at home we become increasingly dependent on for-
eign oil.
Now, over the long run, by 1985, if we do the right things, we can find some
alternative sources to our domestic production and to our imported production.
We can work hard at making our nuclear energy facilities safer, better protected,
and more reliable. And the Federal Government is spending a significant
amount of money in research and development to achieve those three results as
far as nuclear power is concerned. In the time span between now and 1985, we
can do much more research and development on solar energy, geothermal, and
improving the efficiency and the clean air aspects of coal.
Let me just give you as an illustration in the fiscal year that we are in now.
In the Federal Government, we are spending roughly $120 million on solar
research, an increase from $80 million or $90 million in the last fiscal year. But
1201
