May 3
[417]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Now, if the State of Indiana or any other State wants to have any antitrust
legislation, or price-fixing legislation, that's fine; that's their responsibility and
the State's attorney general then could carry out the mandate of the State
legislation.
But I basically have serious reservations about the concept of parens patriae.
Now, there is a possibility that it will be a part of a large package of antitrust
legislation. I do believe there ought to be some updating of present antitrust
legislation, and I won't get into the details.
So, what we have to do is try and either to get parens patriae out of the leg-
islation or to get it so significantly modified that it is carefully restricted, because
there is the possibility that some good things in antitrust legislation will come
to my desk. And like any other piece of legislation, as the Governor knows, at
least we at the Federal level don't have an item veto-we have to weigh the
good and the bad and then make a final judgment. I want it excluded—if not
excluded, significantly modified-and we will have to wait and see what actu-
ally comes down before I make a final decision.
Q. Hi, my name is Bill Pordand. I'm a medical student, but you don't have
to write me an excuse for today. [Laughter]
As a Hoosier taxpayer it always seems that we are near the bottom of the
totem pole when it comes to the amount of money that we get back, as com-
pared to the amount of money we have put into the Federal Government. What
can we do, as Hoosier taxpayers, to get more of that money back?
THE PRESIDENT. That is a real tough problem, and I think you have to under-
stand the historic background of it. Thirty or 40 years ago a number—I don't
say all, but a number of the Southern States were not as economically success-
ful as some of the Northern States, more disadvantaged people there, lower per
capita income, et cetera. And in order to try and make all States relatively even
for a period of time, the Federal Government was putting more Federal tax
money on a proportionate basis into some of those less well-off States.
Now, however, there has been a vigorous burgeoning of economic activity and
success in many of those Southern States, so the situation isn't quite the same
today as it was 40 years ago.
But once you get a program on the books, it is very difficult to get any changes
in it. We have to recognize that some of the circumstances are changed. Today,
in many of our northern, major metropolitan areas, we have more disadvan-
taged than in some of the larger metropolitan areas in the South.
It would seem to me that a commission which we have been discussing in
the White House, would be a way at least to study the problem and to perhaps
1431
