May 23
[512]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 6:08 p.m. at the
Mission Viejo High School. In his opening remarks,
he referred to Phillip J. Riley, developer of the
community, Wendy Edgren, chairman of the Mis-
sion Viejo Cultural Heritage Committee, and
Richard A. Lowcock, chairman of the Mission Viejo
Municipal Advisory Council, who presented the
President with a copy of the Congressional Code
of Ethics, dated 1851.
512
Remarks in Laguna Hills, California. May 23, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Ernie Billman, Congressman Chuck Wiggins,
Evelle Younger, ladies and gentlemen:
It was my great privilege 4 years ago to speak at Leisure World when I was a
Congressman and, at that time, the minority leader of the House of Repre-
sentatives. I was tremendously impressed in 1972, just like I am tremendously
impressed here in 1976 by the energy and by the vitality, by the wonderfully
warm and friendly reception that I am getting here, and I thank you very,
very much.
Before coming to this part of the visit to Leisure World, I stopped and saw
some of the people shooting pool, I stopped over and saw some of the people
dancing and listening to music, I stopped by and saw that famous band of expert
musicians, and it's just wonderful to see some friendly faces that I have met
and to see some that I have seen over the years. It's obvious to me that Leisure
World must be the busiest place in Orange County. [Laughter]
I think what you have proven really is that retirement need not be a retreat
from life but a fresh opportunity to do all the things that you have always
wanted to do, and it's good to see each and every one of you taking full ad-
vantage of that great opportunity.
My message here today can be summed up in a very few words. As much as
I believe in a strong and prosperous American automobile industry, I have come
here to say that this year there is absolutely no reason whatsoever to trade in
your reliable Ford for a flashier model. [Laughter]
But let me tell you seriously why I am asking you, my fellow Americans—
not only from California but from all over the country-why I'm here to ask
for your support. I'm doing it because I think I have done a good job under very
difficult circumstances, because we have maintained the peace, we have moved
America on the road to prosperity, and we have restored confidence and trust in
the Presidency itself.
1671
