[473]
May 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
to America, along with other vital ingredients of our nationhood. The traditional
Jewish concepts of justice, liberty, family, and citizenship are part and parcel
of the American heritage.
When America's founders created this Republic 200 years ago, they saw it
as a promised land. They were inspired by moral and ethical values of the Old
Testament as well as by the teachings of Jesus. As we reaffirm America's
traditional separation of church from state, we also honor the spirit of our
Constitution which draws its moral philosophy from the Jewish-Christian
heritage. Religious values are the foundation of the promise of America: the
infinite value we place on each individual, the sanctity of human dignity, the
commitment to human rights, and the firm belief in justice for all.
America has grown great because America has the wisdom to invite diversity.
Judaism and all other of our religions helped translate the basic credoes of
religious faith into the principles and into rules that govern our daily lives. I
am tonight especially mindful of the unique blending of the Jewish heritage
with the multitude of diverse cultures of our country. I commend the work
of the American Jewish Committee and the spirit with which you have trans-
lated Jewish concerns into concern for all humanity. We are proud to have an
agency of the American Jewish Committee co-sponsor a White House meeting
on ethnic diversity and group identity next month.
When 6 million Jews were so cruelly murdered in World War II, the victim
was not only the Jewish people but civilization itself. On my visit to the notori-
ous Auschwitz concentration camp last summer, I saw the words vividly writ-
ten, "never again." This must apply to all genocide-either physical or cultural.
The United States stands by the fundamental humanitarian principle that
people should be free to emigrate as they choose. A few years ago, we achieved a
substantial increase in emigration from the Soviet Union. I will do my utmost
to restore this emigration. It will be a complex problem and process in which
the Congress and I, on this case, will have to work very, very closely together.
But the doors were open before, and we must strive to reopen them now for the
future.
The realization of our mutual goals-advancement of political and spiritual
freedom of all people—is a priority item on America's conscience. The proclama-
tion of liberty must be written not only in our Declaration of Independence
but in our hearts. Yet, just as you cannot do all that must be done, neither can
your government. Together, we must have a creative partnership-voluntary
efforts such as those performed so brilliantly by the American Jewish Commit-
1566
