May 7
[442]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
also getting the economy moving. And again, the Grange supports your efforts
in this area, particularly as you try to encourage private enterprise to move into
this area as opposed to Federal spending, Federal Government jobs, and Federal
programs.
My question today is—we also support your efforts to continue the present
farm program to some degree. Now, we recognize that after 1977 we're going
to have to come up with a new Federal farm program. We would hope that this
would be one of the priorities after the fall election. And I'm wondering if at
this time you have any comments that you would like to make as to offer any
changes in the present program, what they may be or may not be?
THE PRESIDENT. Well first, I would expect that Secretary Butz, in his Agri-
cultural Policy Committee would give me the specific recommendations for
any change, if any. My basic judgment is that the present law, as far as it affects
corn and wheat and soybeans, is good, sound, basic legislation. I would vigor-
ously oppose going back to the kind of legislation that existed for most of the 25
years that I served in the Congress, where we had the net results of heavy sur-
pluses, restricted acreage, of minimal overseas markets. That kind of a program,
I would vigorously oppose.
I participated when we made the change from that kind of a program to
the kind we have today when I was a Member of the House of Representatives.
And unless I see some serious deficiencies-and I don't see any now-I would
basically propose the continuation of our present farm legislation. I think it is
consistent with my basic philosophy, which is to minimize government regu-
lation, to maximize the utilization of the free enterprise system, and to give the
individual the kind of economic freedom and liberty which has made this
country great.
That's the kind of farm legislation I think we have, and that's the kind I
want for the next 4 or 5 years.
Q. Mr. President, I am a veterinarian at North Platte, Nebraska. As I recall,
one of the first acts or one of the first vetoes that you levied was against the
animal health research bill after you took office. In 1940 there was 40 percent
of the Federal research budget spent for agricultural and livestock disease
research. By 1975 this had diminished to 1.5 percent.
Most of the research funds at the present time are dispensed on defensive type
research. The Hatch Act, as amended in 1956, provided for 50 percent of the
Federal funding and 50 percent of the funding from the States. At the present
time, the Federal portion of this has dropped to 18 percent to support this re-
search. There is an ever-increasing demand for food production. Even with
1499
