[533]
May 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
almost $6 billion in Federal benefits to more than 5 million disabled and dis-
advantaged older Americans in 1977-140,000 of them right here in the great
State of Ohio.
In the field of health care, the Federal Medicare program, in 1976, will provide
more than $17 billion for the health care of 24 million older and disabled
Americans, 1,200,000 again right here in the great State of Ohio.
Now, there are some flaws in this program which actually help raise the cost
of your medical care and which fail, unfortunately, to provide or to protect you
adequately against the economic burdens of a prolonged illness. I have proposed
major improvements in the Medicare program to make it serve you better. One
of the most important improvements would provide for the payment of all but
a very small fraction of the catastrophic costs of complex or extended care as
well as treatment.
I don't have to tell you that medical treatment is very, very expensive today. If
you have to stay in a hospital or a nursing home or under doctor's care for a
very long, long time, it puts an incredible strain on your lifetime savings or on
your peace of mind, and that strain is felt by your loved ones just as well as your-
self. All of us know cases—a friend, a neighbor, a part of your family-in which
someone has been stricken with an illness that lingers on and on and on. We
know of the pain; we know of the heartache associated with a prolonged and
expensive illness. We know that being sick and bedridden for an extended period
of time is bad enough without having a person's income and life savings dwin-
dling as the medical bills keep piling up.
This must not continue, and I, as President, will not permit it to continue. And,
therefore, I recommended what I think is a good program to solve the problem.
There is no reason that older Americans should have to go broke just to get
well or stay well in the United States of America. Under my proposal the indi-
vidual's contribution to Medicare would go up very slightly, but consider what
the increase would provide to you and to the other 24 million who would be
covered. Nobody eligible for Medicare would have to pay more than $500 per
year for hospital or nursing home care or more than $250 a year for a physician's
services. Medicare would pay the rest, whether it is $1,000, $10,000, or $50,000.
That's good protection, and I think it's a good program, and I hope you will
support it. This proposal provides the full protection so vitally needed by older
Americans and, if the Congress passes it, the ruinous economic burden of cata-
strophic illness is one thing America's older citizens will never have to worry
about again.
Another of my programs would consolidate 16 Federal health programs, in-
1740
