[392]
April 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
Christian young person in Russia? Why do you continue to let them bull their
way throughout the world-in Angola, in Panama, where pro-Communists
live-and especially in wheat deals?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me say that Mrs. Ford and I attended that same church
in Moscow in 1968, and we were proud to go there as Americans who believe in
God and made a commitment. We are proud of that, and we don't approve of
the internal domestic policies of the Soviet Union. We don't agree with the
domestic policies of a great many countries throughout the world, whether they
are military dictatorships in one part of the world, whether they have a Com-
munist form of government in another part of the world.
I think it's sad and tragic that out of 140 nations in the world today there
are only about 25 of them that are democracies like our own. I think that's sad.
And our job is to do something about it in a responsible and in an affirmative
way. But, I don't think that we ought to go to war about every one of those
problems, and I don't think you do either. If you are suggesting that the United
States should start shooting every time we disagree with the internal domestic
policies of a country, I just think that is wrong.
Q. I merely suggest that we expect the Soviet Union to concur as much with
détente as the United States does and have as much integrity as a nation as the
United States does. If they are going to back down on détente, then I feel that
we should also.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, let me say as long as I have been President we have
never backed down once from the Soviet Union, with one exception, when the
United States Congress decided we couldn't do something in Angola against
the policies that I had which would have challenged the Soviet Union, and we
could have succeeded in Angola if the Congress had not lost its courage and will.
So, that's not our problem.
DEMOCRATIC PRESIDENTIAL NOMINEE
[7.] Q. Mr. President, I am Barry Reno, and you're not. [Laughter] I just
have a simple question here. Assuming that you receive your party's nomination
this summer, who do you think would be the most difficult for you to beat in
November-Mr. Carter or Mr. Humphrey?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me say you're not a suburb in Washington, D.C., either.
[Laughter]
Alright, I think either Hubert Humphrey or Jimmy Carter would be very
formidable opposition. In the one case, with Hubert Humphrey, he and I took
the oath of office together back in January of 1948. He was a Senator; I was a
1332
