[420]
May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
officials who want in Birmingham a better and better emergency medical serv-
ice program go beyond whatever the Federal Government makes available.
Some other communities may not want or may not feel they need as much
in one program as in another. So, what we have tried to do is to take those 16
health service programs that are now arbitrarily, inflexibly rooted into law
and to add to the money-so there would be more money and every State would
be held harmless, but give to Alabama the same amount or more money than
they got before with less arbitrary, inflexible rules and regulations—and to let
Birmingham and the State of Alabama decide whether they want to accentu-
ate the emergency medical service program and maybe give a little less to
something else.
In other words, I strongly believe, Doctor, that you in Alabama would be
infinitely better off, you would have far less Federal bureaucracy if we had a
block grant program, and then the good citizens of Birmingham or Alabama
could make the choices as to which ones they wanted to accentuate or to expand
and which ones they might like to reduce.
So, believing strongly in local control and local decisionmaking, and trying to
get away from this overhead and bureaucracy in Washington, I believe the
health grant program or block grant program is the better approach.
Q. We're concerned in particular here with our prisons, under a court order
and such, and Medicaid is cating up most of the funds in the State. If the money
comes to the State of Alabama, it will all go to Medicaid and none to EMS
[Emergency Medical Services]. That's our major concern.
THE PRESIDENT. There's no need for that if the aroused people in the State
of Alabama-and after all, I have a lot of faith in the people here, as I do in
the other 49 States-I think they will make the right decisions. And emergency
medical service is one of the most important programs I know in that group
of 16.
U.S. AID TO ISRAEL
[3.] Q. Mr. President, I'm affiliated with a local magazine called Region,
and I'm also representing the Jewish Monitor today. And they would like for
me to ask you these two questions.
The first one, Mr. President, is: I would like to ask you about your stand
concerning our continued support to the nation of Israel. Are you for continu-
ing to send the amount that we pledged to send to Israel or are you for cutting
it?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me answer it this way. For the current fiscal year, which
1452
