[569]
June 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
you for all the superb things you've done not only for Ohio but for the country
and across this great land. I am proud of her, and I am sure each and every one
of you are proud of Frances Bolton.
This organization works to promote harmony and brotherhood—and, I must
say, sisterhood-among all peoples of all religions and all races. Frances Bolton
very early understood America's interests in promoting harmony and promot-
ing peace in all countries and all peoples of the world.
You know, when I start talking about foreign policy, it sounds like I'm talking
about some foreign problems. Actually, I'm talking about people like me who
represent people like you. While I'm at a negotiating table with a foreign leader,
I'm not looking across the table at a nation, I'm looking at another person.
The differences between nations that keep us apart are less important than
the similarities that bring us together as people. This is the lesson of our common
humanity.
Our foreign policy today is based on man's respect for man, on our under-
standing that we are indeed "riders on the Earth together," in a constant effort
to make reason the strongest force in the conduct of nations. This is why
America has long sought to use its strength for peace. This is why America has
always stood for freedom and justice, self-determination, the duty of the strong
toward the weak, of the prosperous toward the poor.
Americans have learned that we cannot police every remote corner of the
Earth nor fill every empty bowl. But we can be an immense influence for good
and for justice, for reason and for peace in this world in which we live. We
have made some mistakes. We have learned from those mistakes rather than
being disillusioned about them. We must now carry out our responsibilities
with the wisdom and maturity that we have gained.
I pointed out in my first State of the Union Message in January of 1975, the
following: At no time in our peacetime history has the state of the Nation
depended more heavily on the state of the world, and seldom, if ever, has the
state of the world depended more heavily on the state of our Nation. I spoke
then at a time of trouble, a time of division among Americans, of economic re-
cession and energy shortage, of constitutional crisis and national self-doubt.
Now we are in the midst of gathering recovery in our unity, in our economy,
in our self-confidence. Yet it has become increasingly apparent that the inter-
connection between peace, prosperity, and justice in the United States and in
the world is a permanent fact of international relations. On this shrinking planet
our self-interest and our ideals compel us to use our vast power to help shape
1820
