June 6
[569]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
community, to your friends, and everyone else, is just the best of this great
country.
So, I wish you a good many years more of love, a good many more years of
friendship, and a good many more years of the very best of health.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 6:55 p.m. in the Gold
Room at the Sheraton Cleveland Hotel. In his open-
ing remarks, he referred to Thomas Boardman,
editor of the Cleveland Press.
569
Remarks in Cleveland at the National Awards Dinner of the
National Conference of Christians and Jews. June 6, 1976
Tom, Governor Rhodes, Senator Taft, Congressman Chuck Mosher, Mayor
Perk, Abe Luntz, Dr. Hyatt, reverend clergy, ladies and gentlemen, and, of
course, our honored guest, my old and very, very dear friend, Frances Bolton:
I am honored once again to address the National Conference of Christians
and Jews. You are striving to make brotherhood more than just a phrase. You
are enriching the lives of all Americans by working to keep our democracy
real and our democracy flourishing.
You have given tonight the Human Relations Award to one of my best and
most wonderful friends, Frances Bolton, with whom, as has been mentioned
before, I had the privilege of serving in the Congress for 20 years. I know from
very deep and personal experiences of her tremendous contributions to our
country and her dedication to humanity.
Frances liberated herself long before the age of women's liberation—the first
woman to be elected to the Congress from Ohio, the first woman Member of
Congress to head an official mission abroad, the first woman to be appointed a
congressional delegate to the United Nations, and one of the first Members of
the Congress to recognize the very special importance of Africa and the Middle
East in international affairs.
I think Frances is the best proof of women's equality in America. And as she
was speaking, I closed my eyes for a moment. I heard the same voice here to-
night that I heard speak on the floor of the House, in the well, which was just
as meaningful then as it was tonight. And I opened my eyes and saw virtually
the same person that I saw as a great leader in the House of Representatives for
nearly two decades.
It's just a great opportunity for me, Frances, to be here and to pay tribute to
1819
