May 14
[481]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
to pass judgment on the kind of campaign he has been running. We expect
to win regardless of his campaign.
Q. Mr. President, Jimmy Carter has suggested today that your decision on
holding up the signing of this nuclear agreement was based on your problems
with Ronald Reagan, and he says that it has reached the point where foreign
policy is being made on the basis of this Presidential Republican primary contest.
THE PRESIDENT. No. I think I know a little bit more about that treaty than
Jimmy Carter does, and I know a little bit more about the negotiations that
took place and materialized in that treaty. That treaty is a very complicated one.
We had to take some extra time, and we did. It is a good treaty, and that is the
most important thing. We have got a breakthrough by being very hard
negotiators with the Soviet Union, and I am proud as President Ford that
we got for the first time in some 25 or 30 years onsite inspection in the Soviet
Union. No other President before me has accomplished that. That is a real
breakthrough. I think if Jimmy Carter took a look at it, he would not make
any such allegations about it.
Q. When will we be doing that, sir ?
The President. We will do it as quickly as we can get the whole thing fully
analyzed, fully organized for the signing. There is no set time on it.
Q. I think the point that he was trying to say was not that it was a good or
bad thing, but that he—
THE PRESIDENT. I am sorry, I cannot hear you, Mr. Jones [Philip H. Jones,
CBS News].
Q. I think the point of his comment was not whether it was good or bad
but the fact that you had delayed signing it for political reasons.
THE PRESIDENT. I think Ron Nessen answered that well yesterday when he
said politics had no impact on whether it was signed yesterday or a week from
now or 2 weeks from now.
Q. Mr. President, you said earlier that you wouldn't give consideration to
Mr. Reagan as possibly holding a spot on your ticket as the Vice Presidential
candidate. Can you tell us why?
THE PRESIDENT. That is very simple. Mr. Reagan indicated publicly he wasn't
interested.
REPORTER. Thank you very much.
NOTE: The exchange began at 4:40 p.m. at Standi-
ford Field. In his opening remarks, the President
referred to Representative Tim Lee Carter, former
Senator Thruston B. Morton, honorary chairman
of the President Ford Committee, and John Sher-
man Cooper, U.S. Ambassador to the German
Democratic Republic.
1587
