May 17
[494]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
generated a spirit of mutual and very deep confidence fundamental to our
relationship as friends as well as allies.
As in 1776, Mr. President, America welcomes the partnership of France and
deeply values her friendship, her wisdom, her strength, and France's long-
standing tradition of leadership. Together, we face wonderful opportunities
for the future.
Two centuries ago, during the Revolutionary War, General Washington
had a special dinner guest, the French general, philosopher, and author, Chastel-
lux. Writing of that dinner, he remarked favorably upon the calm and the
agreeable conversation, but he disapproved of the 10-course menu.
He observed, however, that the frequent toasts were a sort of refrain, punctuat-
ing the conversation as a reminder that each individual is a part of the company.
To all of our guests, French as well as American, I welcome you as part of
our company, gathered this evening in tribute to France and in the honor of her
President.
Let us toast to the health of the President of the French Republic and the
friendship of France and the United States. To the President.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:22 p.m. in the State
Dining Room at the White House.
President d'Estaing spoke in French. His remarks
were translated by an interpreter as follows:
Mr. President, Madam, ladies and gentlemen:
This morning, after having left Paris at 12:00
and arrived in Washington at 10:00, I rather have
the delightful feeling that I have managed to set
back eternity by 2 hours. [Laughter]
Now this evening, after listening to you, Mr.
President, I have the feeling that you have set back
eternity by two centuries.
Listening to the warmth, knowledge, and friend-
ship with which you discussed what happened
two centuries ago, I rather have the feeling of that
dinner during which Washington suffered too many
courses. [Laughter]
Mr. President, the note of simple dignity with
which you have struck for this visit of the Pres-
ident of France, together with the words of friend-
ship you have just spoken, clearly illustrate the
true inspiration of our meeting-the present com-
memoration of a past event, but an event that is
still alive for all of us and which we are happy to
celebrate together.
We are not here as archeologists digging up
a dead past. We are here for a warm, joyful celebra-
tion of a living idea, one of the great ideas of
which it has been said that its spark is only to
be alive in a single mind to set the world afire.
I mean, of course, the liberty of men.
In the course of my visit to the United States,
I shall have occasion to call to mind on the actual
scene of events some of the high points in your
struggle for liberty. But this evening, as I address
the President of the United States and with him
the whole American people, I want to take the
opportunity to say how profoundly gratified I feel
at the understanding that exists between our two
governments.
I want to say also how convinced I am of the
value of this understanding not only for our two
countries but for world progress. It is precisely
because of our shared sense of the current need
for Franco-American friendship, Mr. President,
that we both wanted to meet immediately after we
took office. And so I had the pleasure of welcom-
ing you to Martinique, 18 months ago.
I refer to that meeting because it was our first,
but also because our relations continue to be in-
spired by the spirit of the talks we had there.
What has been referred to as the spirit of Martinique
can be defined as openness and trust, mutual re-
spect, and a sense of solidarity. In no way does it
imply, whether on our side or on yours, any weak-
ening of independent judgment or of our own
responsibilities. It might be appropriate to recall
the words of Richard Henry Lee in 1776: "It is
not choice but necessity that calls for independence
as the only means by which foreign alliance can
be conducted." Such a sentiment calls for a com-
mon will to dispel misunderstanding, to turn away
from recrimination, and to promote dialog.
1623
