May 14
[484]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Throughout our history, America has shown its ability to raise great fighting
forces on very short notice. In World War I, for example, within 18 months
General Pershing was able to produce an army of some 2 million strong that
decisively defeated troops hardened by 4 years of war in Europe. In fact, the
speed at which America has mobilized has been matched only by the speed
with which America dismantled much of its military establishments time and
time again, tragically leaving us ill prepared for the next threat to our priceless
freedom.
Today, America can no longer afford to rely on the roller coaster approach,
the peak and valley way we have done it in the past in handling our national
defense capabilities. The awesome speed, the technology of modern warfare
mean we would not have 18 months in the decade of the seventies or the eighties
or the nineties. We wouldn't have 18 months. I think the record is clear we
wouldn't have 18 days to prepare our own defenses.
If we are forced to fight again, the next war is likely to be come-as-you-are.
Instant readiness is another term. We are strong today. We are well-prepared
to deter war as we have. But if deterrence should fail, we are well-prepared to
control the conflict and to avoid nuclear confrontation.
Our job now is to make sure that America remains strong, and I promise you
as Commander in Chief and as President that we will remain strong in the
future, as we have in the past.
In my budgets for fiscal year 1976 and 1977, I took the necessary steps to
stop the downward trend in American military spending for which the Congress
must bear the exclusive responsibility. That trend in Congress has reduced the
defense share of our Federal budget to its lowest level since fiscal year 1940
and the lowest share of our gross national product since before the Korean war.
This has come to pass for one very specific reason—because the Congress over
the last 10 years has reduced defense budget proposals of three Presidents by
some $45 to $50 billion.
When I was in the Congress, I fought that trend for some 25 years. For 14
of those years, I had the privilege to serve on the House Appropriations Sub-
committee that reviewed the total defense budget submitted by Presidents from
1953 to 1965. For 14 years, for 5 months a year, 5 days a week, 5 hours a day, I
listened, along with the other members of the subcommittee, to Secretaries of
Defense, Chairmen of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, all the Secretaries of the Army,
the Navy, the Air Force, as well as the top generals and admirals in all of the
services.
It was a great experience and gave me a foundation and a background I think
1595
