May 25
[523]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
treaty negotiations, with super powers or with smaller neighbors. We are doing
nothing behind the backs of the American people or contrary to the constitu-
tional checks and balances on the Presidential power to conduct foreign relations
with other countries.
And there is one more thing that I can tell you: Whenever I get a good agree-
ment that protects the interests of the United States and advances the prospects of
permanent peace, I'm going to sign it and send it to the United States Senate
whether it helps me or hurts me in this election.
In Portland the other night, I talked about Africa. I will only repeat that this
huge continent commands the sealanes of the South Atlantic and the Indian
Ocean as well, as well as a wealth of raw materials which we increasingly rely
upon.
The Soviet Union recently demonstrated an intense interest in the southern
part of Africa and our Congress deliberately let strategic Angola fall under
their influence. I have used and shall continue to use diplomatic countermeasures
and whatever means may be essential to our national security to keep open all
of our strategic sealanes and to check Soviet involvement and Cuban adventur-
ism, whether in Africa or the Americas. But I will take the path of peaceful per-
suasion and negotiation as long as it is open. I will not let the United States'
foreign policy become a political football if I can in any way possibly help it.
But let's turn to the Middle East, under another strategic area of the world,
where our perseverance for peace is at least paying some dividends. I am very
proud of last year's Sinai agreement as a milestone on the road to peace between
Israel and her Arab neighbors which would have been inconceivable a few
years ago. The leaders of both Egypt and Israel trusted the United States,
trusted us sufficiently to take this historic first step after decades of distrust and
four costly wars, not only bringing death and destruction to them, but also threat-
ening a confrontation between us and the Soviet Union.
Because of the foreign policy, we have pursued a friendship and fairness
toward the moderate Arab nations and a continuing commitment to the security
and survival of Israel. The United States—and the United States alone—can ex-
ercise such influence for peace and stability in the Middle East.
Ours is not a policy of threats or bluster, but of firmness, patient mediation,
and growing trust. A strong Israel is essential to a stable peace in that area, the
disruptions of which in 1973 brought on the oil embargo that not only weakened
our economy but crippled Western Europe's as well. Our commitment to Israel
is demonstrated by almost $4 billion in the two budgets that I have submitted
to the Congress, which is not only in Israel's interest but in our own and the
1707
