[360]
April 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
360
Remarks at a President Ford Committee Reception in
Atlanta. April 23, 1976
John, Matt, and all of you wonderful Republicans here in this meeting in the
Atlanta area:
Let me first express my deep appreciation and gratitude for John Savage's en-
dorsement. I know it will be very meaningful, and I promise to you, John, as I
promise to everybody here, I won't let you down.
Now, let me thank all of you. This is the biggest Georgia Republican gather-
ing I have seen in the many, many times I have been in Georgia on behalf of
the Republican Party, so I think it augers well that come May 4 we may surprise
some of those people who think they are going to win. I think we have a darn
good chance of winning.
I want to thank some of the people that I know personally, that I served
with in the Congress, for the help and assistance and their support. First, I want
to thank Fletcher Thompson, who I understand has gone the length and the
breadth of Georgia speaking out on my behalf. And if Fletcher is here, I want
you to know, Fletch, thank you very, very much.
I want to thank another great Georgian for the help and assistance, the in-
valuable aid that he gave me during some tough times in this campaign, a very
dear friend of mine, a very outstanding American, Bo Callaway. I think it is
very unfair the kind of treatment he is getting from a committee in the United
States Senate. And, doggone it, they ought to do better in the handling of a mat-
ter of this kind to give Bo a fair shake.
Now, let me, if I might, give you some ideas and suggestions that might be
helpful in the 11 days between now and May 4. I know many of you will be at
the telephone phone banks, many of you will be talking to your friends, many of
of you will be discussing who ought to be the Republican nomince in the fall of
1976.
Let me respectfully give you some suggestions that I know have been helpful
in the areas of this country where we have been successful and in those areas of
the country where we are going to be more successful.
First, when I became President in August of 1974 we were experiencing some
very serious economic problems. The rate of inflation was 12 to 14 percent. We
were on the brink-literally on the brink of the worst economic recession in
this country in 40 years.
1188
