[406]
April 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
fully qualify, could fully carry out the responsibilities of the office of Vice
President.
I think it is premature to make any decision on that important choice, and
I can assure you we don't lack good potential people for that important respon-
sibility in our Government.
ADMINISTRATION EFFORTS TO CONTROL CRIME
[6.] Q. Mr. President, I am a student at Angelo State University and I would
like to ask you what your administration has done or what it plans to do to help
control crime in the United States?
THE PRESIDENT. The question is, what has this administration done in crime
control in the United States?
First, in 1975, I would say July, as I recall, I submitted a comprehensive crime
control bill to the Congress of the United States. And let me just give you one
of the particular provisions that I recommended, which I followed up last week
in the drug abuse control message that I sent to the Congress.
I recommended using this as an example-a mandatory 3-year sentence for
anybody who is convicted of trafficking in drugs, and for a second conviction a
mandatory 6-year sentence for any conviction.
Now, as I understand it, some newspaperman has written a story to the effect
that what I submitted last week for the drug abuse control proposal was that
under my proposal they could have a parole after 6 months. That is wrong.
When I say mandatory sentence for 3 years, I mean 3 years, period, or 6 years,
period.
Another proposal that I recommended a year ago in the crime control mes-
sage was that anybody carrying a gun who was convicted of committing a
felony must also go to jail for a mandatory period of time, period.
May I say parenthetically, while we are on the subject of guns, I am unalter-
ably opposed to the registration of gunowners and the registration of guns,
period. We must make certain that the person who uses a gun in the commission
of a crime goes to jail and the individuals who collect or legally use guns are
not inhibited by a bureaucracy from the Federal Government.
There were a number of other provisions in the crime message that I sub-
mitted a year ago. Congress hasn't acted on this legislation. I hope they will
before they adjourn this year.
But I am able to report to you that because we, I think, have created the right
environment, because we have done some good things with what we call career
criminal programs such as in Houston and in Dallas and elsewhere throughout
1392
