[552]
June 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
invited us, the members of the New Coalition, to meet with him and the
Members of the House of Representatives. I think again we found that there is
much more resistance to revenue sharing in Congress than we would ever
dream possible coming from our States and our local communities, because
there-in some 39,000 communities where revenue sharing is so important—
we get the feeling that it is the right thing. And we have great faith that the
money is being used and would be used, continue to be used, in a wise fashion.
Then we come back here, and we find Congressmen who want to add re-
strictions and limitations and all of the things that we are trying to get away
from in this small amount of money that goes back to the local communities.
So, I think the meeting was worthwhile from perhaps the benefit of both us and
Members of Congress. I can't, of course, speak for them, but at least they know
that we feel this is extremely important. And we heard people say that un-
doubtedly taxes would have to be raised on the local level if we don't get revenue
sharing. In most communities around this country, property taxes are very
regressive and are a great burden, and that is very frightening. And they would
have to raise property taxes because revenue sharing would stop and cease
to continue.
QUESTIONS
REPORTER. Governor, what kind of a deadline do you have? When do you
think you should know if there is going to be revenue sharing or not?
GOVERNOR RAY. Well, in a sense one deadline is almost past and that is that
most legislatures now have adopted some kind of a budget. If we don't get
it soon, of course, I think in some jurisdictions they are going to have to look
to how they are going to raise more taxes.
We felt there is a deadline now--and this meeting is very timely-because we
understand that if something does not happpen and it doesn't come out soon,
they will get into the appropriation bills, and it is very difficult for this to find
a spot on the calendar.
Q. Is there any assurance that both party platforms will include revenue
sharing as it is now?
GOVERNOR RAY. I don't think there is any assurance that anything will appear
in either party platform on any subject. But I think both parties are certainly
in favor of revenue sharing, and I would expect them to deal with it, particularly
if something happens that does not come through this Congress. We just deem
it extremely important.
1780
