June 7
[578]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
and dying today. Thank goodness for that. I might add, there isn't a single young
man out of the 2,100,000 who was drafted. They're all volunteers. And nobody
getting through high school or college is under the eye of the draft, and the
Ford administration will keep it that way in the future.
But let's take just a minute-that election tomorrow is a vitally important one.
It will probably decide who's going to be the Republican nominee for the Presi-
dency. Let me ask you a question: Do you want a Republican candidate for the
Presidency who can win, or do you want one who's going to lose? I say, vote for
Ford. You have a candidate who will win.
Let me ask you one other question about that election tomorrow. We can't
have the right kind of Government in Washington, we can't have the right kind
of government in your great State of Ohio, unless we have more Republicans in
the State legislatures, unless we have more Republicans in the Congress. You
want a candidate at the head of the ticket in the national election for November
that can help Bob Taft get reelected—that is vitally important—that will help
Tenny Guyer, that will help Bud Brown, that will help us get more candidates
elected, so the Republican President can have a working majority to get the job
done, to cut spending, to reduce taxes, to keep the peace, and to keep the confi-
dence and trust that the American people demand of their Government in the
Nation's Capital.
Let me just conclude with this: You know, those of us who come from Michi-
gan, we love you Buckeyes, we love Woody Hayes'—[laughter]—and I love
him particularly because he came out and endorsed me. [Laughter] But let me
say this: You know, you like to beat us up in Michigan. Well, a couple of weeks
ago, the voters of Michigan gave me a 65-percent majority.
BYSTANDER. We'll beat it.
The President. That's what I want to hear. Nothing would make me happier
than for the State of Ohio, those big Buckeyes, to beat us, the record we set in
Michigan of 65 percent. Do it, and you'll have a good President for the next 4
years.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:27 p.m. at the Lima Mall. In his opening remarks, he referred to Kent
McGough, Ohio State Republican chairman.
¹ Head coach of the Ohio State University football team.
1843
