[342]
April 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
The Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare, David Mathews, and the
Department are moving ahead rapidly to implement the program objectives
that will assure the availability of the vaccine to all citizens before the end of
the year.
The same spirit of cooperation that was exhibited by the Congress must now
characterize the rest of this program if we are to be successful. The pledges of
active support that have already been made by members of the medical pro-
fession, major health organizations and associations, civic groups, elected offi-
cials, and individual citizens have been heartwarming. They assure me that the
job can be done.
I intend to give this program my direct attention and my full support because
the health of our Nation is at stake. I urge every American to receive an inocu-
lation against this form of influenza, and I urge everyone to support this pro-
gram in their own community.
NOTE: As enacted, H.J. Res 890 15 Public Law 94–266 (90 Stat. 362)
343
Remarks at the Swearing In of Samuel R. Martinez as
Director of the Community Services
Administration. April 15, 1976
Sam and Mrs. Martinez and your family, Secretary Mathews, Secretary Hills,
distinguished guests:
Let me welcome you to the White House today for the swearing in of Sam
Martinez as Director of the Community Services Organization and Adminis
tration [Community Services Administration]. I spent a good deal of time in
Sam Martinez' native State, and I feel the next best thing to visiting Colorado is
bringing one of its leading citizens to Washington.
Sam Martinez brings to Washington more than a decade of experience in
dealing with public policy at many, many levels. At a time when the American
people are concerned about maintaining the roles of the State and local units
of government, his experience at those levels makes him especially valuable to
all of us.
Sam Martinez began his administrative career as a principal at Fort Lupton
High School in Colorado where he had been a teacher as well as a coach. His
involvement in helping people at the State and local level began in 1964 when
1132
