April 29
[387]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
organizations just because a political campaign is in progress. The business of
Government has to proceed. And under no circumstances have any of these
decisions been made in relationship to any primary.
THE PRESIDENT'S POLITICAL PHILOSOPHY
[7.] Q. Mr. President, Bill Broom of Ritter Newspapers.
One of the key issues in this Texas Republican primary seems to be whether
you are conservative enough, and some newspapermen think they detected a
shift toward the right in some of your policies and positions. Will this be a
benefit or a handicap to you in the fall?
THE PRESIDENT. In the first place, Bill, the policies that I have carried out for
the last 20 or 21 months in the White House have been the policies that I have
believed in in the 25 years that I served in the Congress of the United States.
They are middle-of-the-road policies both at home as well as abroad, and
nothing that I have done, as far as I can analyze it, would indicate any shift in
my basic philosophy or in the implementation of that philosophy. And I be-
lieve that being in the middle of the road, as far as the Republicans are con-
cerned, on a nationwide basis, is the right policy. And I know it is the right
policy in meeting a Democratic challenger in November.
Q. You are confident then that you are conservative enough to win in Texas,
but middle-of-the-road enough to win in the fall, is that right?
THE PRESIDENT. I think so.
NATIONAL DEFENSE PROGRAMS
[8.] Q. Mr. President, David Glodt with KTRK-TV in Houston.
Why suddenly the attacks on Ronald Reagan openly? And secondly, are you
saying that Ronald Reagan is, in effect, not fit to be President of the United
States?
THE PRESIDENT. When I set forth our defense budget, when I carry out our
foreign policy, it is predicated on an in-depth study before we make any decision,
where I consult with the best experts that we have within and without the
Government. And those policies have been successful, as I have indicated. And
when they are challenged by over-simplified one-liners, in my opinion those
challenges have to be met head-on by specifics. And that is what I have tried
to do on an impersonal basis, and that is what I will do from now on, because
this country deserves to know the facts in a complex and very difficult area, and
you can't take just part of a problem and come to a certain conclusion. You have
to look at the broad spectrum.
I
1301
