May 14
[477]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
everything that is supposed to be going up is going up, and everything that is
going down is supposed to be going down.
But as we take a look at some of the other things, when I became President
the trust of the American people in their government was at a pretty low ebb.
We have restored that confidence by frankness, forthrightness, integrity. So,
when you look at the three key programs that I have carried out—peace,
prosperity, and trust-it's my feeling is that the American people want that for
the next 4 years.
I'll be glad to answer some questions.
REPORTER. Mr. President, what do you think about your chances here in the
Tennessee primary?
THE PRESIDENT. I am optimistic. I think it will be close, but I'm optimistic.
Q. Do you think that Ronald Reagan's statement that he feels you will lose
in your home State of Michigan and therefore you declare defeat—————
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think we will win, and win well in Michigan.
Q. President Ford, how come you haven't defended your foreign policy more
strongly in the wake of Ronald Reagan's criticism of it?
THE PRESIDENT. I think I have defended the good foreign policy very
energetically and with great feeling because it is a foreign policy that achieved
the peace and a foreign policy that is keeping the peace, and it is a foreign
policy that will maintain the peace in the future. It's a good foreign policy. It's
been a successful one.
Q. Mr. President, your delay in signing the threshold nuclear test ban
treaty has been interpreted in Moscow as a snub. Was that intentional?
THE PRESIDENT. Not at all. It was just one of the practical problems that we
faced with the heavy job of being President and the heavy job of campaigning.
Q. Mr. President, do you expect Senator Brock to endorse you?
THE PRESIDENT. I know Bill Brock is a very good friend of mine. And we
have a great deal in common. I will leave that up to Bill Brock.
Q. Sir, concerning that delay of the nuclear test ban project, there are those
who were saying that you were concerned about signing it now because anything
you sign with the Russians will go down to your discredit in the campaign.
Did politics play any part?
THE PRESIDENT. Not at all. I am very proud of that nuclear test ban agreement
because for the first time, through very sound and, I think strong negotiating,
I obtained for the United States the first opportunity to have onsite inspection
in the Soviet Union. This is a breakthrough that five or six Presidents before me
have sought to obtain, but because we were firm, because we had good relations,
1577
