April 23
[362]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
deeply concerned over the last few years for what we call catastrophic illness,
and how families, even well-to-do families, can carry the burden and the cost
of an extended illness, or a very extended illness. And I have seen some very
tragic cases, and I suspect many people in this audience have seen families of
friends, of neighbors, of relatives where a tragedy of that kind has taken
place.
I have recommended to the Congress that we attack that problem in Medi-
care and Medicaid, because that would at least relieve the financial burdens
of those people who have had a serious catastrophic illness, and there is no way,
except in the most minute cases, where a family can carry the costs that we
now have in those instances.
Q. Doesn't that go for all persons over the age of 65?
The President. In the program that I recommended, that is correct.
Q. What about the other people?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we have to do what we can in steps, and this is the
area—and there are about 3 to 4 million of them, so it is not an inconsequential
step. But it is a step that I think we could handle in the first step of trying to do
something affirmative.
One more. Somebody in the middle here.
ALL-VOLUNTEER MILITARY FORCE
[16.] Q. An all-volunteer service seems to be coming under some question
now. Some Members of Congress have recently raised the additional question
of whether we should go back to some sort of draft system. Would you com-
ment on that, please?
THE PRESIDENT. I have long been an advocate, prior to and still am, of the all-
volunteer military force. I think it has worked well. We are able today to satisfy
the needs of the Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marines at a total active duty
strength of 2 million by an all-volunteer military force. I believe that in peace-
time—and we are at peace—we can have and use, and use effectively, an all-
volunteer military force. It cuts down your training base; you get people to
stay in longer; you don't have the same turnover. You have to pay them more,
and you have to have better fringe benefits, so to speak, but in the long run it is
the right way.
Now, if we went up to 4 million on active duty for the Army, Navy, Air
Force, and Marines, as one individual in this country is advocating-I guess,
because he says the Soviet Union has 4 million in their active duty; therefore,
we ought to have 4 million-now I don't agree with that. But if you went from
1207
