May 11
[455]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
455
Toasts of the President and Queen Margrethe of Denmark.
May 11, 1976
Ladies and gentlemen:
It is a very great privilege and pleasure for Mrs. Ford and me to have you
with us on this occasion in the White House. On your first visit to our country
since ascending the throne, I welcome you very warmly on behalf of all of the
Americans.
Americans have a historic affinity and a special friendship for Denmark, and
we want your stay in our country to be as joyous and rewarding as possible.
There are no less than 22 cities and towns in the United States called Den-
mark. I think this is somewhat indicative of the Danish influence in America's
heartland where I understand you are visiting, and those of us who come from
that part of the country, of course feel it is the heartland of America.
I am tremendously delighted that you will visit many, many parts of the
United States and that our people have an opportunity to meet you and to treat
you as hospitably as I know they will. I am especially pleased that you will visit
the Virgin Islands because of the very special ties flowing from those historic
islands.
Your visit is very timely in this Bicentennial Year because our two countries
have maintained uninterrupted diplomatic relations with each other longer
than America has had such relations with any other country. Our relations
began in 1801 and they have never been severed by war or for any other reason.
In your American travels you will meet millions of Danish ancestry. We are
extremely proud of the contributions to our progress by those who have your
cultural heritage and the moral and spiritual values that are important to both
of our peoples.
The traditional ties between Denmark and the United States are reinforced
by a common dedication to the freedom and the dignity of the individual and
to the economic and social progress which is important to us all. It is these shared
commitments that make us not only close friends but steadfast allies in the
North Atlantic Treaty Organization.
In these shared commitments we, of course, feel that the rich culture is a
vitally important part. And Denmark has given, not only to NATO but to
Western Europe, much to humanity. Committed to the objective of peace among
nations, the Danes have made that goal a reality by serving in the United States
1525
