April 15
[344]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
he was named assistant director of the Colorado Civil Rights Commission.
He served the people of Colorado as a special assistant to the Governor and as a
State and regional director of the Colorado Office of Economic Opportunity.
Since that time, Sam Martinez began his responsibility in managing Fed-
eral programs and that role has expanded significantly. In the last few
years he
has served very constructively as Chairman of the Mountain Plains Federal Re-
gional Council and Regional Director of the United States Department of
Labor.
Sam Martinez and I share a personal commitment to help the poor and dis-
advantaged Americans served by the Community Services Administration. Its
programs demand strong and very effective and very imaginative leadership.
I am fully confident, Sam, that you will provide that leadership.
And now I ask the Executive Clerk, John Ratchford, to please administer
the oath. John.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:17 p.m. in the Rose
Garden at the White House. In his opening remarks,
he referred to David Mathews, Secretary of Health,
Education, and Welfare, and Carla A. Hills, Secre-
tary of Housing and Urban Development.
Mr. Martinez' response to the President's remarks
is printed in the Weekly Compilation of Presidential
Documents (vol. 12, p. 657).
344
Statement on the Death of Judge William H.
Hastie. April 15, 1976
I AM deeply saddened to learn of the untimely death of senior Judge William
H. Hastie, former Chief Judge of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Cir-
cuit. His death is a great loss to the Nation, the judiciary, and the Judicial Con-
ference Advisory Committee on Appellate Rules, where he served as Chairman.
Judge Hastie's outstanding abilities have long graced the Federal judiciary.
His life in public office as a lawyer, as dean of Howard University Law School,
and as the first black Federal Judge have left an indelible imprint on the Nation.
NOTE: Judge Hastie, 71, died in Philadelphia, Pa., on April 14, 1976.
1133
