April 23
[362]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
JACK AND STEVE FORD
[9.] Q. Hi, Mr. President. My name is Bonnie Ruder, and to break the
monotony of the questions that have been asked you about détente and Nixon
and all this-[laughter]—I would like to ask if you would ask your son, Jack,
to take me to the Junior-Senior Prom on May 8.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I am very proud of him, and I think he is very attrac-
tive, but, you know, if I became prejudicial or preferential toward Jack, I have
got another son, Steve, and I don't want to get in any family hassle. [Laughter]
And Steve is a darn nice-looking kid, too.
THE ECONOMY
[10.] Q. Mr. President, as I understand it, your administration has predicted
a 6-percent inflation rate for the next 3 years. Is that correct?
THE PRESIDENT. No, that is not accurate. We predicted when we submitted
the January budget for the next fiscal year, and when we put together our eco-
nomic plan for the next fiscal year we had to make certain forecasts based on the
facts as we saw them then and, as I recollect, we estimated that in the next fiscal
year the rate of inflation by the end of that fiscal year period would be 6 percent.
At the same time, we said that the increase in the gross national product would be
5 to 5½ percent. At the same time, we said that the unemployment rate at the
end of that fiscal year, at the end, would be 7 percent.
Well, the economic blue skies have changed, at least my forecast of what those
figures are going to be. We have not made any official change, but as I have said
several times today, the cost-of-living increases for the first 3 months of 1976
averages out 2.9 percent. So, we are doing an awful lot better right now on the
inflation rate than we forecast we would do when we submitted the budget in
January.
Now, I am not sure we can sustain a 2.9 percent inflation rate the rest of this
calendar year,
but that's about half of what we said we would have, and I think
we'll be substantially below 6 percent. And also, if we can get reasonable nego-
tiations in the labor-management field, in rubber, in automotives, in electrical
appliances, and in any of the other contract negotiations that are going on, and
if we can keep down the rate of Federal spending, I think we will make signifi-
cantly better progress than 6 percent on the rate of inflation.
Q. Mr. President, when you said reasonable settlements, do you consider the
Teamsters settlement reasonable?
THE PRESIDENT. It was marginally so, marginally.
Q. Wasn't that a 33-percent increase?
1203
