July 5
[649]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Immigrants came from almost everywhere, singly and in waves. Throughout
our first century they brought the restless drive for better lives and rugged
strength that cleared the wilderness, plowed the prairie, tamed the western
plains, pushing into the Pacific and to Alaska. Like the Mayflower Pilgrims and
the early Spanish settlers, these new Americans brought with them precious
relics of the worlds they left behind—a song, a story, a dance, a tool, a seed, a
recipe, the name of a place, the rules of a game, a trick of the trade.
Such transfusions of traditions and cultures, as well as of blood, have made
America unique among nations and Americans a new kind of people. There is
little the world has that is not native to the United States today. Unfettered by
ancient hates, the people of the young United States really believed that all men
are created equal. We admit they had stubborn blind spots in their lofty vision—
for blacks, whose forebearers had been Americans almost as long as theirs, and
for women, whose political rights we took even longer to recognize.
This is not the day, however, to deplore our shortcomings or to regret that
not all new citizens have been welcomed as you are here today. The essential fact
is that the United States—as a national policy and in the hearts of most Ameri-
cans—has been willing to absorb anyone from anywhere. We were confident
that simply by sharing our American adventure these newcomers would be
loyal, law-abiding, productive citizens, and they did. Older nations in the 18th
and 19th centuries granted their nationality to foreign born only as a special
privilege, if at all. We offered citizenship to all, and we have been richly
rewarded.
The United States was able to do this because we are uniquely a community of
values, as distinct from a religious community, a racial community, a geographic
community, or an ethnic community. This Nation was founded 200 years ago,
not on ancient legends or conquests or physical likeness or language, but on a
certain political value which Jefferson's pen so eloquently expressed.
To be an American is to subscribe to those principles which the Declaration of
Independence proclaims and the Constitution protects—the political values of
self-government, liberty and justice, equal rights, and equal opportunity. These
beliefs are the secrets of America's unity from diversity—in my judgment the
most magnificent achievement of our 200 years as a nation.
“Black is beautiful" was a motto of genius which uplifted us far above its in-
tention. Once Americans had thought about it and perceived its truth, we began
to realize that so are brown, white, red, and yellow beautiful. When I was young,
a Sunday school teacher told us that the beauty of Joseph's coat was its many
1975
