[378]
April 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
QUESTIONS
PANAMA CANAL NEGOTIATIONS
[1] Q. Mr. President, we've heard many accusations by your Republican
opponent, Mr. Reagan, and in one of these he states that the United States is
going to give up control of the Panama Canal Zone, and I was wondering if
this accusation had any merit to it?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me put the whole problem in proper perspective.
In 1954, riots broke out in Panama and 24 people were killed-20 Panama-
nians and 4 Americans-and on that occasion it was decided by the then Presi-
dent Lyndon Johnson that the United States should start negotiating with the
Panama Government to try and resolve how we could keep the canal open for
our use, as well as the use of other parties as they do today. And those negotia-
tions have carried on under President Johnson, Mr. Nixon, and my administra-
tion, trying to find an answer.
And the attempt we're making is to find an answer so that the United States
can maintain operational control, maintenance control, and defense control
during the economic lifetime of the canal over a long period of time, anywhere
from 40 to 50 years; certainly, well into the next century. No decisions have
been made, and this negotiating process has gone on for 12 or 13 years.
I think it is constructive to negotiate, as my two predecessors did. Now my
Republican opponent, by his very, I think, critical statements, in effect, says
call off the negotiations. And let's think about the consequences of calling off
those negotiations.
You would undoubtedly have more riots, undoubtedly more bloodshed. You
would incur the enmity, antagonism of 309 million people in Latin and South
America, 25 nations. And if we were to keep the canal open with these riots and
this guerrilla activity that would inevitably result, the United States would have
to add significantly to the present military forces there. We now have roughly
10,000 Army personnel down there to defend the canal. You would have to
double it or triple it.
Now, I think those very bad consequences can be overcome by responsible
negotiation, and anybody who wants to call off the negotiations by the language
which has been used or the points that have been made, I think is terribly
irresponsible. And I intend to continue the negotiations, and I assure you we
will not do anything that will undercut, destroy the national security interests
of the United States in the Panama Canal.
1256
