[325]
April 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
those within the Middle East and others to have restraint until we can achieve
a political settlement.
I don't believe that there has been any rash action by any party so far and
we certainly will use our maximum diplomatic influence to make certain that
doesn't happen.
Q. Mr. President, don't you consider what is happening there in the past
week, with all the killing going on-and we know this is backed by Soviet
arms-don't you consider this a heightened thing? And don't you consider
that rash military action? And, if Syria does take over, and Israel is faced with
another border with a hostile force, don't you think in view of all this that
perhaps you should reconsider your judgment, your previous judgment?
THE PRESIDENT. You are presenting the worst possible case. We do not expect
that to take place or transpire, and we are maximizing our efforts to prevent it,
to preclude it. And I don't think it will happen. And therefore, the military
recommendations of $21 billion for Israel is fully adequate to meet the cir-
cumstances we think will take place.
CUBAN INTERVENTION ABROAD
[5. Q. Mr. President, just a few weeks ago, in this very hotel, Secretary
Kissinger said that we will no longer tolerate any further Cuban intervention
abroad. And I am wondering, just how far you are committed to back up that
threat, especially in the view that there are now some 20 Russian combat pilots
in Cuba?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me say that the statement made by Secretary Kissinger is,
in effect, my statement. I believe that, and he was carrying out what I have per-
sonally said myself.
Number two, over a long period of time, there have been Soviet pilots in Cuba.
We don't believe that there is any significant change in that situation today
from the past, and we certainly will be alert to recognize any change if one does
occur, and we would object if there was any significant change.
BLACK VOTE
[6.] Q. Mr. Ford, several members of the Congressional Black Caucus and
other black political leaders have said that they will not endorse a Presidential
candidate right now because they are not addressing themselves to the specific
needs of black Americans, i.c., unemployment, welfare, and things like that.
What will you do to get the black American vote, and just how important is
that vote to you?
1068
