[609]
June 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. I think they are very good, and we expect to be nominated
in Kansas City, and we expect to win in November.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:31 a.m. at Weir
Cook Airport. In his opening remarks, he referred
to Governor Otis R. Bowen of Indiana and Mayor
William Hudnut of Indianapolis.
610
Remarks in Indianapolis at the Annual Convention of the
United States Jaycees. June 22, 1976
Thank you very, very much, President Dick Robinson, Governor Bowen, Mayor
Hudnut, Mr. Simensen, members and guests of the United States Jaycees:
I am overwhelmed and, obviously, deeply honored to join you here this
morning and to receive such a warm and generous welcome. And I thank
you from the bottom of my heart.
I have been looking forward to this visit for a long, long time, because the
Jaycees have always made me feel right at home. When I was just beginning a
law career in 1941, in Grand Rapids, Michigan, I became a proud member of our
local Jaycee chapter. In all of the years that have followed-as a Congressman,
as Vice President, and now as President-I have found the philosophy and the
spirit of the Jaycees to be a great source of personal strength. So, it is great to
be among friends on this occasion.
I am especially proud that I can salute all of you on the eve of our 200th
anniversary as a nation. If there is a single organization, if there is a single
group of outstanding young Americans that has come to reflect the Bicentennial
spirit, it is the United States Jaycees, and I congratulate you.
For over a half century, the Jaycees have been fertile breeding ground for
America's most promising young leaders—the kind of leaders that met in Phila-
delphia in 1776 and proclaimed a new age of freedom for mankind. For over
half a century, the Jaycees have stood tall in their patriotism for the United
States-the kind of patriotism that rode in the saddle with Paul Revere on the
outskirts of Boston and inspired Patrick Henry down in colonial Williams-
burg. For over half a century, the Jaycees have been filled with rock-hard deter-
mination to do what is best for America-the kind of determination that
sailed with John Paul Jones when he warned the enemy, "I have not yet begun
to fight."
Youth, patriotism, determination, a love of liberty-those are the qualities
that I have always found in the Jaycees. And I know this group and those that
1898
