May 7
[443]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
pleted by July, but dry weather had already caused damage in the Western
Corn Belt. We could not discount the possibility of another drought or an early
freeze, as we had had in the previous year of 1974. To protect our livestock
producers, our regular customers overseas, and the American people, we were
forced to intervene to learn the Soviet's intentions.
With the greatest reluctance, we put a temporary hold on further grain sales
to the Soviet Union. Pressures mounted in the Congress—as I am sure Carl and
Roman can attest to-to halt all private grain sales and put agricultural exports
in the hands of a Government management and control board, just as Canada
and some other countries have at the present time. You and I know that is the
last thing we need—is the Government running your business 365 days a year.
The situation, however, did require corrective action and a long-term solution.
The solution was the negotiation of a 5-year agreement at market prices. That
agreement is working and working very well. Now we have a very steady
market, not a boom and bust cycle that can't be controlled or can't be predicted.
The prospects for grain and soybean sales this year are very excellent; carry-
over inventories are much higher than a year ago. As of April 1, the wheat
stocks in the United States were up 42 percent from last year. Corn stocks were
up 27 percent, and soybean stocks were up 31 percent.
Early nationwide production forecasts indicate this year's crops should be
bountiful. Thus, our inventories and our production should be fully sufficient
to satisfy all of our domestic and export demand. Therefore, I foresee no pros-
pects whatsoever of any Government interruption of the exports of the Ameri-
can farmer.
These good sales and glowing prospects are the fruits of free trade. They
are also the benefits of peace, of aggressive, successful negotiations, and of
your own hard work. Furthermore, they are a major force behind America's
rising prosperity, and I congratulate and thank each and every one of you.
I have no intention of exploiting the American farmer by using farm ex-
ports as a pawn in America's foreign policy. Nor do I intend to see America's
farm export market jeopardized by corruption or inefficiency at the grain
inspection station.
I have directed the Department of Agriculture to do everything it can to
maintain the confidence of our export grain customers through proper certifica-
tion. In addition, I favor legislation providing more careful supervision of
grading and weighing of grain for export. But turning over your business to
one Government bureaucracy, federalizing the entire inspection system is going
much, much too far, and I am opposed to it.
1493
