[476]
May 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
the next 4 years. I did not seck this Presidency, but I will not shirk from its
responsibilities.
Telling the truth is the secret to success in government, as in everything else.
In my administration, we have faced many of the unpleasant facts of American
life and we have dealt with them in a forthright and effective way. We have
avoided making fancy promises and raising false hopes. And in the future as in
the past, I will promise no more than I can deliver and deliver everything that
I promise.
Peace, prosperity, and trust are the sum of my performance in the nearly 2
years since I became your President. They are a prescription for progress in
America today, and they can be the greatest legacy any generation of Americans
has ever left to its children. And that is why I ask for your support on May 25,
November 2, and the 4 challenging years ahead.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9.5% a m. in the Iree
dom Hall Arena. In his opening remarks, he
referred to E Williams III, Washington County
Re, ublican chartıran, R Heine Jhnson,
executive director
leges, Inc
: the Holton Cinteriner
477
Exchange With Reporters on Arrival at Memphis, Tennessee.
May 14, 1976
IT IS just great to be in Memphis. We had a very fine stop in Johnson City.
Naturally, I wish I could have visited Chattanooga and Knoxville and Nash-
ville, but I do have a responsibility to be President as well as campaign. We
love Tennesseans, and we will do the best we can by stopping where we have.
I want all of you to know that I am deeply grateful for the leadership of Gov-
ernor Dunn, of Senator Howard Baker, of Bill Brock, and the other congres-
sional members. I am very, very grateful for their help and assistance.
Let me say that I am optimistic about our opportunities here in Tennessee.
The warm welcome in Johnson City was very encouraging. We, of course,
think we have a record that would justify the support. And that record is pred-
icated upon 21 months of success in keeping the peace and building the blocks
for the peace in the future and for the prosperity which is now surging from
the troubles we have had over the last year, year and a half.
We are on our way to, I think, a permanent and constructive prosperity with
employment going up and with unemployment going down. As a matter of fact,
1576
