[520]
May 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
the western team in San Francisco, and then later went on and played in the
All-Star game in Chicago.
But what I'm saying is that it's a great opportunity for me to renew acquaint-
ances, to make new friends. But let me be very clear on one point. I appreciate
your help. I think we have got a program that's good for America. And it's a
program I want to work on and to achieve in a better way and a longer process
for the next 4 years. And I need your help.
What you all do between now and June 8 can make a significant difference
in California. You will man the phone booths, you will talk to your friends,
you will talk to your neighbors, you can get others enlisted to do what you are
doing. Underdogs-and I frankly think we are an underdog-but I want to be
very clear on this point-I've seen underdogs win, and I think we have the
potential of winning. And I want to make a pledge to you right here and now
that Jerry Ford is going to be fighting until the last hour in the State of
California.
We're going to do it because what's happened in the last 22 months I think
justifies the need and necessity for us to have an opportunity to serve the
American people for the next 4 years.
What have we done? Reflect, if you will, or recollect the circumstances in
August of 1974. We were going through a traumatic economic experience. In-
flation was over 12 percent. The American people were on the brink of a serious
economic recession, where unemployment went up and employment went
down.
We were faced with some serious problems overseas. Our allies were apprehen-
sive; our enemies, our adversaries, were in a position where they might have
sought to take advantage of the uncertainty of American will. There was a lack
of faith and trust in the White House itself. In the last 22 months-because we
didn't panic, because we held a firm hand on the tiller-this country has turned
around. We've restored faith and trust in the White House. The open, candid,
frank policies that we've pursued all the time of my political life we have carried
out since I have been in the Oval Office, and we will do exactly the same thing
for the next 4 years. The American people like that, and that helps us in try-
ing to recruit people and to get votes between now and June 8.
Now, in addition, go back just 12 months ago. The economic recession we
were in was the worst in 40 years. A few of us here can remember the depres-
sion of the 1930's. But in 1975 we were on the brink of very serious economic
problems. But we have turned it around. The rate of inflation has gone from over
1698
