[349]
April 21
Public Papers of the Presidents
directions they proposed in our foreign policy and our defense policy. It is not
good enough to criticize current policies while refusing to propose specific
alternatives. Those who seek the Presidency must be equal to its burdens.
To charge that this administration-an administration that has fought for
the two biggest defense budgets in history and for the first time in 10 years is
convincing the United States Congress to spend enough for defense—to charge
that we have led our Nation into military inferiority is preposterous on its face.
The American people have had enough distorted allegations that we have
become a second-rate power. We must see the world as it is. We must form our
policies out of hard facts, not political fiction.
First and foremost is the fact that the United States today is the single most
powerful nation on Earth—indeed, in all history—and we are going to keep it
that way. Our economic power is far and away the largest and the most produc-
tive, producing an estimated 24 percent of the world's wealth with less than 6
percent of the world's population. At a time when the number of democracies
in the world has dwindled to less than two dozen out of over 140 countries on
this globe, we remain the best hope of freedom and the inspiration for liberty of
all mankind.
I say that those with faith in America must speak the truth to the American
people—the truth that we are the greatest nation on Earth; the truth that we
have the strength to defend our interest and to resolve to uphold our values;
the truth that we are strong, we can never relax our guard; the truth that for
the first time since the days of Dwight Eisenhower, a President standing for elec
tion can say we are at peace; and, finally, the truth that we must actively engage
in maintaining world peace and defending freedom.
I promise to you that I will do everything within the power of the Presidency
to keep America strong-militarily, economically, and morally-as I have
throughout my public life, but I need your help. Without your support, without
the informed, intelligent, confident, constructive support of all the American
people, no President can keep the ship of state on a safe, steady course. But with
your help, our 200th birthday as a nation can be truly a rebirth of America.
For 200 years, we have more than justified the faith and far exceeded the wild-
est dreams of our Founding Fathers. Time and time again, we have repeated
the hardships of Valley Forge and the sacrifices of Iwo Jima to protect and to
defend our precious freedom. Our dedicated Armed Forces stand guard today
in the same spirit.
America today is unsurpassed in military capability. We have the greatest
1144
