April 10
[333]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
the record for the last 19 or 20 months, I have vetoed 47 bills, 39 have been sus-
tained, and we have saved $13 billion. And we are going to continue to do it in
order to keep control over the rate of growth of Federal spending.
Now, what will be the net result? If Congress will go along and the American
people will support it, we can have a balanced budget in fiscal year 1979 and we
can have an additional tax reduction at the same time.
One more here, and then one over there.
FEDERAL HOUSING PROGRAM
[15.] Q. Mr. President, this is in reference to the Federal housing assistance
program that you signed into law in 1974. As it stands right now, Amarillo has
a 5-year tract with HUD on this program, but Congress has only appropriated
money for 1 year. How do you feel that Congress will react on this program for
the succeeding 4 years?
THE PRESIDENT. Are you talking about the Section 8 program?
Q. Yes, I believe that is it.
The President. I recommended for fiscal year 1977, I think it was 400,000
units of Section 8 housing.
Q. That is right.
THE PRESIDENT. Naturally, I hope the Congress will go along with it. I think
it is the best of the subsidized housing programs that have come from the Con-
gress or from the White House. I personally believe that Congress will go along
with it, and we hope so because I think it is a good program. We will certainly
try to prod and push them.
What is your impression, John?
Senator Tower is the senior Republican on the Committee on Banking and
Currency in the Senate. He probably knows a lot more about housing legislation
than I. But I think it is the best of our subsidized housing programs, and I hope
the Congress will go along with it.
ABORTION
[16.] Q. You have probably been asked this before, but what are your feel-
ings on abortion and, if you are against it, would you support an amendment to
the Constitution prohibiting it?
THE PRESIDENT. I think the United States Supreme Court decision went too
far. I think in effect it went further than it had to. On the other hand, I do not
agree with those who would seek to amend the Federal Constitution to have an
inflexible approach to abortion, either. I think that is much too drastic.
1111
