[595]
June 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
Seminary in Massachusetts, was graduated from the Baptist-affiliated Wake
Forest University. And it was my pleasure 4 years ago to be the speaker at his
graduation ceremony.
We meet today in a year of historic importance and national celebration—
the Bicentennial Year of American independence. Even as your denomination
has grown from fewer than 500 people in America, at the beginning of the 18th
century, to almost 13 million today, Baptists have played a very fundamental
part in the birth and growth of America.
An early champion of religious freedom-which the great Baptist minister,
George Truett, once called "the supreme contribution of the New World to
the Old"-was Roger Williams, founder of Providence, forerunner of Jefferson,
and giant among Baptists. The principle of democracy itself was rooted deeply
in the Baptist Church long before there was a United States of America.
Thomas Jefferson so admired the Baptist form of church government that he
called it "the purest democracy in the world."
Abraham Lincoln's mother, a devout Baptist, was perhaps the most important
and enduring influence in the memorable life of her son, implanting in him a
deep faith in God and always encouraging him to “be somebody.” History gives
us many, many more examples of profound Baptist influence on American life,
a tradition still being enriched today.
Billy Graham came from your ranks to become one of today's most influential
Christian evangelists and one of the most admired men of our time.
Brooks Hays, twice the president of this convention, a former colleague of
mine in the House of Representatives, and a very dear friend, has stood
through his distinguished career as a man of courage and a man of conviction,
a man of towering moral strength, a man who sets a good example for all of
us in public or in private life.
These rich contributions of religious liberty, democratic principles, social
equality, evangelistic fervor, and moral strength have reserved for your people
an honored place in American society. You have always jealously guarded the
separation of church and state, but you have always believed that private morality
and public service can and must go hand in hand.
The essential task of leadership in our modern age, as in ages past, is to inspire,
to teach, to act with courage, to live with honor, and to show the way. The
minister in the pulpit, the teacher in the classroom, the foreman on the dock,
the executive in the boardroom, the commanders of armies and navies, the
parents of children all share the burden and the satisfaction of leadership fully
as much as those who served in government.
1878
