[368]
April 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
suggest that his commission might periodically exchange information and ideas
with a counterpart here. This proposal, which was the result of discussions
between President Echeverria and concerned Members of the United States Con-
gress, stands as a clear signal that the Mexican government recognizes the need
to build a coordinated response to the problem of drug abuse. I believe the peri-
odic exchange of views on this matter between our two nations would be help-
ful. Accordingly, I am assigning responsibility for liaison with the Mexican
Commission to the Cabinet Committee on International Narcotic Control and
I am directing the Secretary of State, as Chairman of the CCINC to immediately
form an executive committee to meet with its Mexican counterpart to discuss
ways in which our government can collaborate more effectively. We shall of
course consult with concerned Members of Congress as these efforts are carried
on.
Drug abuse is a national problem. Our national well-being is at stake. The
Federal Government-the Congress, the Executive Branch and the Judicial
Branch-State and local governments, and the private sector must work together
in a new and far more aggressive attack against drugs.
I pledge that the Federal Government will maintain the high priority which
it has given this problem. We will strengthen our law enforcement efforts and
improve our treatment and rehabilitation programs. With Congress' help, we
will close loopholes in our laws which permit traffickers to prey on our young;
and we shall expect the courts to do their part.
All of this will be of little use, however, unless the American people rally and
fight the scourge of drug abuse within their own communities and their own
families. We cannot provide all the answers to young people in search of them-
selves, but we can provide a loving and a caring home; we can provide good
counsel; and we can provide good communities in which to live. We can show
through our own example that life in the United States is still very meaningful
and very satisfying and very worthwhile.
Americans have always stood united and strong against all enemies. Drug
abuse is an enemy we can control but there must be a personal and a national
dedication and commitment to the goal.
If we try, we can be successful in the long run. I am convinced we can-and
that we will.
The White House,
April 27, 1976.
GERALD R. FORD
1224
