[407]
April 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
tained, and saving $13 billion. That is the kind of strong, effective, anti-inflation-
ary program that we have undertaken.
And you could take a look at the number of jobs. A year ago we were in
the depths of a serious recession. In the meantime, in 12 months, because we
had the right policies, we have added 2,600,000 more jobs in America. We are
now up at the highest rate of people gainfully employed in this country,
86,700,000.
But, I am not satisfied because there are too many people unemployed. We
are doing well, but I want a situation in this country where everybody who
wants a job and will look for a job can have a job. That is the kind of economy
we want in America today.
Now, let me make one comment that I think all of us who are dealing in the
facts-and particularly those of us who have to go out and meet the comments
made by my challenger or you who meet the individuals who are supporting
my challenger-my challenger has raised the issue about whether or not our
military capability was sufficient. He is alleging that we are number two.
First, that is totally inaccurate, but as to his credibility to make that charge,
let me make this observation. On November 20 of last year, when he announced
his candidacy in Washington, D.C., he was asked a question by one of the
reporters at that press conference whether or not he could recommend a figure
that would be adequate for our defense appropriations. It just happens that that
answer is a matter of record, and here is what my opponent said. “I didn't say
what I wanted to spend. You have me in a position in which the answer is very
difficult because I think only when you are in that position of command do
you have access to all of the information that is necessary for making that
decision. Obviously, I am not in that position and do not have that information
at this moment."
Then he went on following another question by a reporter and said, “One
has only to face the fact that there are facts not known to you which cannot be
known to you because of classification, and this always must be kept in mind
as a reservation about any opinion that you might render."
What, in effect, he is saying is he didn't have enough information to make
a judgment or to make a recommendation as to how much money we ought to
have for the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, or Marines, and now, a few months
later, he is saying we are not spending enough money, that our program is
inadequate.
I think this affects his credibility very seriously as to whether or not he can
be an honest critic of the status of our defense program. And, so, I think
1398
