[494]
May 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
I do not think there has ever been a time when
contacts between our two governments have been
more frequent, consultation more sustained, and
cooperation more goodwilled. Also, it has never
been clearer that though our methods may some.
times differ, our final objectives are inspired by
that same ideal of liberty, peace, and justice, which
is the ideal of our two peoples.
Events have certainly demanded considerable
attention from us. The problems are varied: Euro-
pean security, the Mediterranean, the Middle East-
ern conflict, the tragedy of Lebanon, the evolution
of southern Africa, the economic stability of the
West, a new balance to be established between
industrialized and developing countries.
It is inevitable that the United States and France
should be involved in all these problems. Of course,
France does not have at her disposal the same
means of action as the United States. But the in-
fluence of France extends to a wide and estab-
lished audience, and this yields to a politically in-
dependent voice, an increased defense effort, thriv
ing friendships across the world, particularly in
Africa, and a dynamic economy still not fully rec-
ognized as such in this country.
These factors again added authority from the
fact that nobody doubts France's commitment to
the cause of peace. This enables France to be for
the United States, as the United States is for
France, an all-the-more solid ally in that her loyalty
is devoid of any touch of subservience.
We have only to refer to experience to see that
when world problems arise, Franco-American un-
derstanding and cooperation never fail to be of
benefit. At Helsinki, for example, when détente
was formulated in terms of principles which for
both of us at once exclude confrontation and abdi-
cation; and then they were of benefit again in the
case of the Rambouillet conference, where the
principal industrial powers shared a clear resolve
to meet the responsibilities created by the economic
crisis from which we are now emerging together-
these are two examples of the results to be obtained
through shared initiatives.
[Up to this point, President Giscard d'Estaing spoke
in French and his remarks were translated by an
interpreter. At this point, he began speaking in
English.]
And now, after having called to this gentleman,
a Ford, to translate my speech. I will call for a
Ford to understand me. [Laughter)
It is, Mr. President, my sincere wish that this
visit may be the occasion for the Americans to
acquire a better understanding of the French peo-
ple-to be sure our Latin roots have a formative
influence on our character, to be sure we are im-
petuous and enthusiasts, but we are also loyal
and determined. Such are the qualities which over
the centuries have enabled us to ride out the
storms of Europe.
It is because of these qualities that we can de-
clare to France's partners today that, whether in
prosperity or adversity, France is a dependable
friend.
I also wish that the understanding built up be-
tween us should remain the way it was expressed
in the inscription that one of my ancestors had
engraved on the tomb of a French officer killed at
Boston on September 15, 1778, that, "all attempts
presuming to separate France and America might
prove forever vain."
It is in this spirit, Mr. President, that I offer to
you, as well as Mrs. Ford and to your family,
my warmest good wishes for your happiness and
well-being, and that I raise my glass to honor the
independence of the United States of America and
the 200 years of friendship between our
peoples.
495
Toasts of the President and President Giscard d'Estaing of
France at a Dinner Honoring President Ford. May 18, 1976
Mr. President, Madam Giscard d'Estaing, distinguished guests, ladies and
gentlemen:
Thank you very kindly, Mr. President, for your very thoughtful and very
generous words. Mrs. Ford and I are most appreciative and highly honored
for the opportunity to join with you and your many friends here on this
occasion this evening.
1624
