May 14
[483]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
to India and then he came back. John knows of the work that I have done
and the reputation that I have. I have had the privilege of working with Tim
Lee Carter for the time that he was in Congress, and I was privileged to be a
Member of the House of Representatives and the White House. I could not
ask for three finer individuals to endorse my candidacy for election in 1976.
Yes, this country is on a new path, a new direction. Everything that is sup-
posed to be going up is going up, and everything that is going down is sup-
posed to be going down. So, we are on the road to progress in America. And
this administration promises only that which we can deliver, and we deliver
everything that we promise.
Now, I look out at this crowd and I know there is a lot of talent and drive
and energy and enthusiasm. I am deeply grateful that you are here. I am most
appreciative of your support. You're doing a lot. Betty and I are indebted to
you. But let me make a commitment to you: I won't let you down in the next
4 years.
So, let's win that primary fight here in Kentucky. We're going to win in
Michigan. We're going to win in Kansas City, and we're going to win in No-
vember, so we can do the job in the next 4 years.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:15 p.m. at the
Kentucky Fair and Exposition Center. In his open-
ing remarks, he referred to former Senator Thrus-
ton B. Morton, honorary chairman of the President
Ford Committee, and John Sherman Cooper, U.S.
Ambassador to the German Democratic Republic.
483
Remarks Upon Signing the Armed Forces Reserve Bill in
Louisville. May 14, 1976
Congressman Carter, distinguished members of the military:
Its a great privilege to be in Louisville and to have the opportunity of sign-
ing this very important legislation.
In creating an all-volunteer military force, our country has strongly em-
phasized the very key role which our National Guard and Reserve forces play
in our overall defense.
Existing law requires that a national emergency be declared prior to any
involuntary mobilization of our Reserve forces. This means that these forces
are not now available to augment our active forces in the very cases where
1591
