[644]
July 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
this legislation, the Federal Government will take over this historic site and it
will be known as the Valley Forge National Historic Park.
It will be a great tribute to those that I mentioned in my remarks, to those who
gave so much, and the sacrifices that they made.
So, I congratulate you, Hugh Scott. I congratulate the other Members of the
House and Senate who did such a fine job in making this signing possible.
And so, Governor, we are delighted to take over and make certain that the
good work of the State of Pennsylvania is carried on and that this historic site will
become another in the complex of national historic sites for the preservation of
those things that mean so much to us-those sites that contributed so signifi-
cantly to our national history and our national progress.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:40 a.m. at a
ceremony at Valley Forge State Park, Valley
Forge, Pennsylvania. In his opening remarks, he
referred to Governor Milton J. Shapp of Pennsyl-
vania, Senators Hugh Scott and Richard S.
Schweiker, Representative Richard T. Schulze, and
Secretary of the Interior Thomas S Kleppe.
As enacted, the bill (H.R. 5621) 15 Publx Law
94-337 (90 Stat. 796).
645
Remarks in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. July 4, 1976
Charlton Heston, Mayor Rizzo, Governor Shapp, reverend clergy, distinguished
Members of Congress, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
On Washington's birthday in 1861, a fortnight after six States had formed a
confederacy of their own, Abraham Lincoln came here to Independence Hall
knowing that in 10 days he would face the cruelest national crisis of our 85-year
history.
"I am filled with deep emotion," he said, “at finding myself standing here in
the place where collected together the wisdom, the patriotism, the devotion to
principle, from which sprang the institutions under which we live."
Today, we can all share these simple, noble sentiments. Like Lincoln, I feel
both pride and humility, rejoicing and reverence as I stand in the place where
two centuries ago the United States of America was conceived in liberty and
dedicated to the proposition that all men are created equal.
From this small but beautiful building, then the most imposing structure in
the Colonies, came the two great documents that continue to supply the moral
and intellectual power for the American adventure in self-government.
Before me is the great bronze bell that joyously rang out the news of the birth
1966
