May 3
[420]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
among the American workers is strongly on the increase. Since the bottom of
the recession, just about a year ago, we've gained 2,600,000 more jobs in America.
More Americans, 86,700,000, are gainfully employed. This is more than at any
other time in the history of our country, and considering where we started from
just 12 months ago, that's a pretty good comeback by any standard.
After months and months of higher unemployment and mounting fear,
America is getting back to work, and faith in the future of America has been
restored. We are going in the right direction, and I will not be satisfied until
every American who wants a job can find a job.
But I'm counting on you, who are the real jobmakers, to put America back
to work. The sponsors of the so-called Humphrey-Hawkins bill—and all but
one of the opposition party Presidential candidates endorse it-would have
you believe that just by passing legislation with the title of "full employment"
we could solve our economic problem. That's nonsense. We will not achieve
full employment by letting the Federal Government plan and control the
national economy or by relying on the Federal Government to create hundreds
of thousands of dead-end jobs at the taxpayer's expense.
My plan is to cut individual income taxes by $10 billion on July 1 of 1976,
to increase the personal exemption from $750 to $1,000, to enact an accelerated
depreciation allowance, another investment tax credit, and another corporate
tax reduction.
This is sound economics and the way to keep our recovery moving at
the pace and with the progress that we are making. I want the American
people to keep more of the money they work so hard to earn, to have them
spend that money the way they want to spend it instead of having to pay
more and more for government programs that are not needed..
The majority in the Congress obviously believe that more direct Federal
intervention in our economic recovery is required to keep it going. They believe
higher Federal spending on a host of social programs will stimulate a more
rapid recovery. They believe an unacceptable price for economic recovery is a
new round of higher inflation. They believe that bigger Federal deficits are
required to keep the recovery underway. They are very, very wrong.
If the Congress would act sensibly—and that's asking a lot—[laughter]—
enact my tax cut proposals, we could create such a demand for goods and
services that many more American jobs-permanent, fulfilling jobs—would
be the inevitable result.
This country will need more than 15 million new jobs within the next 10
1449
