[571]
June 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
and I have grave reservations, very serious doubts, that any other Republican
candidate can be elected. So, I say to you that if we want our philosophy of
strength abroad, prosperity at home, confidence and trust in the White House,
and to have that kind of victory across the board, then we have to do a massive
job on June 8 in Ohio, in New Jersey, in California, in Kansas City.
With our victory in Kansas City, we can go on to a victory in November of
1976.
I thank you for your support, and I promise you in the next 4 years Jerry
Ford won't let you down.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:25 am. at the
Cincinnati Convention Center. In his opening re-
marks, he referred to Senator Robert Taft. Jr..
Gov. James A. Rhodes of Ohio, Keith McNamara,
chairman of the Ohio President Ford Committee,
Earl Barnes, Hamilton Counts Republican chair-
man, Giles DeCourcy, president of the Hamilton
County Republican Club, and Steve Bollinger.
chairman of the Hamilton Counts President Ford
Committee.
572
Remarks at a Reception for Local Labor Leaders in Cincinnati.
June 7, 1976
I WANT to thank very, very deeply Governor Jim Rhodes for his all-out
effort. I want to thank the Republican organization from the top down to the
person that gets people to the polls and tells them how to vote for the good
of the country. And I want to thank all of the Republican Members of the
United States Congress, Bob Taft and my former colleagues in the House.
I want to thank the State legislators. They have done a super job on my behalf.
I never thought I could get this many Buckeyes to help the Wolverines. Of
course, the epitome was when Woody Hayes' came out for a Wolverine.
But let me give you a message in capsule form that I gave a comparable
group in New Jersey yesterday. Here is a group of people in the great State
of New Jersey who remember very vividly the clobbering they took in 1964,
where they lost virtually the whole ticket from top to bottom. They lost what
they call freeholders, which are the courthouse people. They lost the State
ticket; it was just decimated. And they are not going to let that happen
again by having the wrong person leading the Republican ticket in November.
And I am not-I just can't believe that Hamilton County or in the other
counties of Ohio you are going to let the wrong person lead the ticket for the
'Head coach of the Ohio State University football team.
1830
