April 29
[387]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
act as effectively as he should be able to if Congress is made up largely of mem-
bers of the opposing political party?
The President. It does present some problems. [Laughter] But on the other
hand, in a number of areas I have gotten some good support from a number of
Democrats, some here from Texas, some from Georgia. We wouldn't have
been able to sustain the 39 vetoes that I have made without the help of some
discerning Democratic Members of the House and Senate and, incidentally, we
have saved $13 billion in taxpayers' money by that kind of support from some
of the Democrats in the House and the Senate. But, I think to get an affirmative
program through, it would be recognized, much easier if we had more Repub-
licans and fewer of the liberal Democrats. The Democrats that I worked with
most effectively are the more conservative Democrats, and they have been very
helpful. But, we would like to replace some of the liberal Democrats with a lot
more Republicans.
JOHN CONNALLY
[27.] Q. Hal Walker, CBS News.
Mr. President, how can you expect to win the State of Texas without the sup-
port of such a powerful political figure as former Governor John Connally?
What are you doing to get an endorsement from Mr. Connally, and do you
expect one between now and Saturday?
THE PRESIDENT. I have had two meetings with my good friend John Connally
over the last month. He didn't indicate he would endorse me or my opponent,
and I never asked him to endorse me. I think the better way for this primary
to proceed is for my opponent and myself to meet head-to-head, which we are
doing.
It would always be helpful for a distinguished public servant like John Con-
nally to have his endorsement, but he, for good reasons, has decided not to en-
dorse either my opponent or myself. And so we are meeting head-to-head, my
opponent and myself, and perhaps that is the best way to have it happen.
REPORT OF SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE
[28.] Q. Mr. President, Bob Sirkin, from WFAA-TV in Dallas.
More of the Senate Intelligence Committee's findings were released yesterday,
and they said U.S. intelligence agencies felt they not only had a right to break
the law but they had the duty to break the law. And I wonder if you agree with
that summation and how these findings will influence your future directives
to the CIA?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the directives that I initiated for the total intelligence
1311
