[406]
April 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
But let me add, as your good Senator knows, one in particular that I vetoed,
they knew they would sustain. They haven't brought it up to be sustained, but
I am darned glad I vetoed the common situs picketing bill, as well.
SECRETARY OF STATE KISSINGER'S TRIP TO AFRICA
[14.] Q. You know that Mr. Kissinger is in Africa right now, and I was
wondering if you couuld tell us if-what progress he is making.
THE PRESIDENT. The question is the mission of Dr. Kissinger in Africa at the
present time.
I can very directly give you what that mission is seeking to do. It is seeking
to reaffirm what we have had from the birth of this country. And we, as a coun-
try, believe in self-determination. That is how we got our freedom-self-deter-
mination of the American people.
Number two, that mission is to make certain that we guarantee minority
rights in the future in any country in Africa.
And number three, he is there to make certain that the Cubans and the So-
viet Union don't move into any of those countries and dominate them. We be-
lieve Africa should solve African problems without the influence or the impact
or the domination of any outside country, including Cuba and the Soviet Union.
There was a gentleman back here that had a question.
NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE
[15.] Q. In your next term in office would you recommend to Congress a
compulsory national health insurance program for this country?
THE PRESIDENT. The question is, in my next 4 years, would I recommend
compulsory national health insurance for this country. I have seen no program
that I would recommend to the Congress for compulsory national health
insurance.
Thank you all very, very much. It has been a great privilege and pleasure to
be in Texas for 3½ days, and to climax it with this superb and wonderful,
hospitable, warm welcome here in Abilene. I thank you.
May I express also my wife, Betty, was in Texas 4 days last week; my son,
Jack, was here twice in Texas, on two occasions-the Ford family, Betty, Jack,
Mike, Steve, and Susan and myself thank you very, very much.
Senator Tower has just pointed out to me that all of these birthday cards here
were made by the wonderful elementary school pupils in the Abilene school
1396
