[339]
April 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
you live, there are Federal laws that are on the statute books. I have sworn to
uphold the law in any case, all cases, and this administration will.
Fourthly, in the area of housing, under the 1974 act, a great deal more local
autonomy and responsibility was given as to where housing should be located.
And if a local community decides that they want housing of one kind or another,
or if an individual wants to build in an area under the law, this administra-
tion will uphold the law.
So, that is an explanation of our policies. I just think that the term that has
created so much controversy is not the way to describe the practical situation.
CUBAN FOREIGN INTERVENTION
[14.] Q. Mr. President, how should the U.S. Government respond to any
future military intervention by Cubans and Third World countries such as that
we saw in Angola?
THE PRESIDENT. Tom, we have a number of options that cover diplomatic,
economic, military-we have a wide, wide range of options. I can say only that
when the problem presents itself, if it does-I hope it doesn't-our action will
be appropriate to what is done. It will be firm, and it will be very consistent.
PRIORITY GOALS OF THE ADMINISTRATION
[15.] Q. Outside of the campaign, sir, could you tell us what your specific
agenda will be for the remaining months of this administration ?
THE PRESIDENT. What my personal agenda will be?
Q. No, sir, what do you see are the priority items for accomplishment dur-
ing the remaining months of this administration?
THE PRESIDENT. I believe in the domestic field, we have a major obligation to
keep the firm, steady and, I think, successful course in trying to get this Nation
out of the worst economic recession in 40 years. We are on the way. Everything
that is supposed to be going up is going up, and everything that is supposed
to be going down is going down. And we are going to follow the firm, steady-
and I emphasize-successful course we have taken.
In the field of energy, we are going to utilize all of the legislation that is now
on the statute books to stimulate additional production, to achieve greater con-
servation, and in the case of Elk Hills, to get some production out of the Navy
petroleum reserves. We do have some other legislation on the Hill in the energy
field that I would hope the Congress would pass, such as the deregulation of
natural gas. We are a little disappointed in what has happened so far, but there
is still a chance we can get that.
In the international field, we are going to continue to go through the negotiat-
1128
