July 2
[638]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
638
Veto of the Military Construction Bill. July 2, 1976
To the House of Representatives:
I am returning herewith without my approval H.R. 12384, a bill “To au-
thorize certain construction at military installations and for other purposes."
I regret that I must take this action because the bill is generally acceptable,
providing a comprehensive construction program for fiscal year 1977 keyed to
recognized military requirements. One provision, however, is highly objection-
able, thus precluding my approval of the measure.
Section 612 of the bill would prohibit certain base closures or the reduction
of civilian personnel at certain military installations unless the proposed action
is reported to Congress and a period of nine months elapses during which time
the military department concerned would be required to identify the full range
of environmental impacts of the proposed action, as required by the National
Environmental Policy Act (NEPA). Subsequently, the final decision to close
or significantly reduce an installation covered under the bill would have to be
reported to the Armed Services Committees of the Congress together with a
detailed justification for such decision. No action could be taken to implement
the decision until the expiration of at least ninety days following submission of
the detailed justification to the appropriate committees. The bill provides a
limited Presidential waiver of the requirements of section 612 for reasons of
military emergency or national security.
This provision is also unacceptable from the standpoint of sound Government
policy. It would substitute an arbitrary time limit and set of requirements for
the current procedures whereby base closures and reductions are effected, pro-
cedures which include compliance with NEPA and adequately take into ac-
count all other relevant considerations, and afford extensive opportunity for
public and congressional involvement. By imposing unnecessary delays in
base closures and reductions, the bill's requirements would generate a budgetary
drain on the defense dollar which should be used to strengthen our military
capabilities.
Moreover, section 612 raises serious questions by its attempt to limit my powers
over military bases. The President must be able, if the need arises, to change
or reduce the mission at any military installation if and when that becomes
necessary.
The Department of Defense has undertaken over 2,700 actions to reduce,
1953
