May 12
[461]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
I know you share my concern for America's security, our commerce, our re-
sponsible role in the leadership of the free world. I know, too, that you are
doers, the kind of people who pay more attention to how somebody does his
job than how deftly he criticizes his competitors, who value performance over
glowing prospectus. So, at the risk of some immodesty, I am going to talk a
little about the job that I have been doing for almost 2 years.
I want to answer as many of your questions as I possibly can but first, let me
answer a very pointed but very proper question I have often asked myself:
"Jerry Ford, why are you asking your fellow Americans and your fellow Michi-
ganders to let you go on being President for the next 4 years?”
My answer is very simple: Because I have done a good job, and I am proud
of it. Because I have turned a lot of bad things around, and we are going in the
right direction. Because I want a mandate from Michigan and the American
people to finish that job. You know, much as I like to see new car sales going
up, I just don't think this is the time to trade in your reliable Ford for a flashier
model.
That's why I'm heading into the second quarter of a campaign which will
determine the direction our country will take in the next 4 years and, actually,
for the future. I want to talk about that future, America's economic future, in
particular. But before looking ahead, consider for a moment where we were
in the very first few weeks and months of my Presidency. Then, as you will
recall, some well-known economists, labor, and political leaders were predicting
that we were heading into a deep depression, that unemployment would soon
exceed 10 percent, that only massive action by the Federal Government could
avert calamity.
Inflation had soared to an annual rate of over 12 percent. Interest rates had
climbed steadily upward. And, most importantly, far too many Americans
were laid off and could not find new jobs. Just about a year ago we hit the bottom
of our worst recession in 40 years. Many in Congress and elsewhere were urging
that we push the panic button. In the Congress, the economic downturn set off
a clamor for huge emergency Federal subsidies, for more and bigger govern-
ment programs and higher deficit government spending.
But the prophets of doom were wrong, and I knew they were wrong. We
did not panic. We resisted big spending schemes that would have caused larger
Federal deficits and even more destructive inflation. We rejected the disproven
techniques of the old politics; instead, we pursued a calm, steady policy to
ensure America's economic health not for a month or for 6 weeks or 6 months,
but for the long, long pull.
1535
