[555]
June 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
555
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session With Reporters
on the Economic Statistics for May. June 4, 1976
GOOD MORNING, everybody. How are you all this morning?
This is a particularly delightful day with this good Washington weather,
but we also have some excellent economic news which was released as of 10
o'clock this morning. The Wholesale Price Index dropped about a half of a
percent. The figure for the month of May is 3, or three-tenths of 1 percent, a
drop from .8 of the last month. This is extremely significant because it indicates
that our battle against inflation is really making headway and that the figure
of last month was an abnormal rise.
Also encouraging was the fact that the unemployment figure dropped from
7.5 to 7.3. And even more importantly, we had another 300,000 added to the job
rolls. So, we have a figure now for the month of May of 87,700,000 people gain-
fully employed, again an alltime record in the history of the United States, which
means that in the last 12 months we have added 3,300,000 more jobs for people
in the United States.
So, these two figures should encourage the American people that the adminis-
tration's anti-inflation, job-providing program is a good one, and we have made
significant headway, and we expect to continue.
Thank you all very much.
QUESTIONS
REPORTER. Mr. President, you have been warning that the inflation rate
couldn't be kept as low as it had been earlier this year. Now do you feel that
possibly it can be?
THE PRESIDENT. I am very encouraged, because as you will recollect in our eco-
nomic program and in our budget message, we anticipated for the Consumer
Price Index that toward the end of the year it would be, as I recall, 6 percent.
But if you annualize the first 5 months of this year, it's considerably below that
for the Wholesale Price Index. And if the Wholesale Price Index is better than
we anticipated, obviously it will have a very good impact on the Consumer Price
Index.
And again, in the case of unemployment, as I recall the figure, we forecast
that by the end of calendar year 1976, it would be in the range of 7 percent. Well,
we have made significantly better progress in that regard than we anticipated.
1786
