[397]
April 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
centives for business expansion and job production, and extended income
cushions for those unfortunate Americans that were out of work. The price of
America's economic recovery was not a new round of double-digit inflation; it
was not another frustrating experience with wage and price controls, nor was it
billions and billions and billions of extra dollars from the Federal taxpayer.
I think you know where I stand on the question of unnecessary Federal
spending. As Senator Tower knows, I vetoed 48 bills since becoming Presi-
dent—and I want you to listen to this because it's very critical-in 20 months
I vetoed 48 bills sent to me by an irresponsible Congress, and I vetoed those bills
because I knew they were wrong. And the Congress of the United States has
sustained 39 out of those 48 bills that I vetoed, and the net result-and this is
what's meaningful to all of you-we have saved $13 billion by those vetoes. And
let me add a postscript, if I might. I will continue to veto those extravagant
spending bills again and again and again and again.
As I look around this wonderful audience and see husbands and wives and
wonderful citizens from the great city of Dallas, I know that each and every
one of you have to keep your own financial house in order. And you have every
right to expect that the Congress of the United States will do exactly the same
thing with the Federal Government, and if they don't, you know what to do
November 2.
Now, if we can hold the line on Federal spending, if we can keep the budget-
busters in the Congress under control, let me make you a promise; it's a prom-
ise that I will keep during the next 4 years. If we can keep the budget-busters
in Congress under control, with your help we will give you another major tax
decrease within the next 2 years.
In order for us to have the kind of economy that we want, I think we have to
get tax reduction; we have to have a holddown on the rate of growth of Fed-
eral spending. And what does this mean? It means more jobs for more Ameri-
cans. And I want those jobs to be in the private sector, where you who work have
a permanency, an incentive. And we all know that five out of six jobs in this
country are in the private sector. Those kinds of jobs give you a pride with the
paycheck. We want a sustained economy in America not only a goal for each
of you but a goal for this country.
But economic progress is not the only progress that we have made. Today,
America is at peace. Today, there are no Americans fighting in any place in the
world whatsoever, and I will keep it that way.
1344
