April 27
[373]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
believe that it would be helpful for us to get as many as possible of independent
voters in Texas, as well as Democrats in Texas, to vote in the Republican primary,
and the bigger the vote the better it will be for us.
Q. Do you think you can win?
THE PRESIDENT. I think we've got a chance to win.
Q. Thank you, Mr. President.
DEPUTY PRESS SECRETARY CARLSON. One more.
Q. Mobil Oil Company was reported yesterday as negotiating with the Viet-
namese Government to drill for oil off the Vietnamese coast. What is the ad-
ministration's position on this?
The President. That is a private business venture as far as Mobil Oil is con-
cerned, and we have no official position on that problem.
Thank you very much.
REPORTER. Thank you, Mr. President.
NOTE: The exchange began at 4:21 p.m. at the Guest Quarters at Barksdale Air Force Base.
373
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session With Local
Officials in Bossier City, Louisiana. April 27, 1976
Thank you very much, Joe, Governor Ed Edwards, Congressman Breaux, Mayor
Allen, Mayor Cathy, General Hoban, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
It's really a pleasure and a thrill to meet with all of you local officials from
throughout the great State of Louisiana, and I appreciate all of you coming here
on this occasion.
As all of you know, the framers of the Constitution carefully constructed a
system in which authority and responsibility, as well as accountability, were to be
shared by different levels of government, as well as by the three branches of the
Federal Government. That system of government, established by the constitu-
tional convention two centuries ago, can be effectively reaffirmed by the United
States Congress this year and, very frankly, it must be.
For too long, the reins of power in this country have been gathered tighter and
tighter into the hands of the Federal Government. For too long, programs of a
narrow, categorical aid multiplied at a great and a growing expense to the Fed-
eral budget and to the American taxpayer. By 1972 there were well over 1,000 of
these various categorical grant programs—each limited in scope, restrictive in
1233
