June 24
[613]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
that the United States, the world's largest single consumer of tin, join them
in their work.
—Constitute a clear demonstration of our willingness to join with others in
seeking solutions to outstanding commodity problems on a case-by-case basis,
and of our desire to be forthcoming towards the developing world while
safeguarding our national interests.
In view of these conclusions, I am convinced that joining the Fifth Interna-
tional Tin Agreement would serve our interests and have foreign policy benefits.
I am transmitting a report submitted to me by the Secretary of State that ex-
plains the Fifth International Tin Agreement and our assessment of it in greater
detail.
I recommend that the Senate give early and favorable consideration to the
Fifth International Tin Agreement, and grant its advice and consent to ratifi-
cation.
The White House,
June 23, 1976.
GERALD R. FORD
NOTE: The agreement and accompanying papers are printed in Senate Executive J (94th Cong., 2d sess.).
613
Message to the Senate Transmitting the United States-United
Kingdom Convention on Taxation and Fiscal Evasion.
June 24, 1976
To the Senate of the United States:
I transmit herewith for Senate advice and consent to ratification the Con-
vention for the Avoidance of Double Taxation and the Prevention of Fiscal
Evasion with respect to Taxes on Income signed at London on December 31,
1975, together with an exchange of notes modifying certain provisions of the
Convention signed at London on April 13, 1976.
I also transmit for the information of the Senate the report of the Department
of State with respect to the Convention and the exchange of notes.
This Convention and exchange of notes are designed to modernize the rela-
tionship with respect to taxes on income which has evolved between the United
States and the United Kingdom from a similar Convention signed at Wash-
ington on April 16, 1945.
The Convention with subsequent exchange of notes is similar to other recent
1907
