[575]
June 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
575
Remarks in Dayton, Ohio. June 7, 1976
Thank you very much Senator Bob Taft, Congressman Chuck Whalen, Gov-
ernor Jim Rhodes, distinguished Mayor, public officials:
This is the most fantastic, warmest, most generous welcome. I thank each and
every one of you. I love to be in Dayton.
Let me take just a few minutes to tell you why I want your help, why I think
I deserve your support, and why I want your vote tomorrow and why we want it
on November 2.
First, when I became President just about 22 months ago, this country was in
trouble. People had lost faith and confidence in the White House. We were suf-
fering inflation of about 12 percent. We were on the brink of a serious recession.
The American people were uncertain as to what they wanted to do in handling
or working with our allies and how to challenge our adversaries. But in 22
months I think the Ford administration has done a good job.
First, we have restored confidence and trust in the White House. This admin-
istration has been open, it has been candid, it has been forthright, and as a result
the American people, instead of being divided, are united. They have faith in
the Oval Office, they have faith in the President.
The second point: As I said, when I became President the rate of inflation was
12 percent per year. We just got a report last week that indicates that the rate of
inflation for the first 4 months of 1976-3 percent or less. In other words, we cut
the rate of inflation from 12 percent to 3 percent. That is a 75-percent reduction,
and that's a darn good job. What does that mean to the person who brings
home the paycheck? It means that he has got more money to spend for himself
or herself or their family than they had from their wages in 1974.
But let's talk about jobs. Jim Rhodes, your great Governor, has done a fabu-
lous job in making certain that jobs come to Ohio, that jobs are here. But let
me talk for just a minute about what we have tried to do and what we have
accomplished.
A year ago unemployment was going up, and employment was going down.
In the last 12 months we've turned it around. We've added 3,600,000 jobs in this
country, 300,000 more jobs in the last month. For the fourth month in a row, the
Department of Labor has announced that we have had the highest number of
jobs in the history of the United States. Just last Friday they said 87,700,000 peo-
ple are working in America. That is progress, and we should be darn proud of it.
1834
