April 29
[387]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Wallace will cross over Saturday to vote in the Republican primary. If that
happens, how do you think that will affect the vote for you?
THE PRESIDENT. I have no way of judging whether that element of the
Democratic Party will cross over and vote for my opponent. I have said that I
want all Democrats who believe in my philosophy, who subscribe to the success
that we have had domestically as well as internationally, I want them to vote
for me, and I hope they will. But I have no way of judging how many of the
Wallace Democrats would subscribe and, therefore, vote for my Republican
opponent. There is just no way I can give you a definitive answer on that.
PANAMA CANAL NEGOTIATIONS
[31.] Q. Mr. President, Richard Holwill, National Public Radio.
As you know, the key to the problem over the Panama Canal treaty is the
term “in perpetuity." Some months ago, Secretary Kissinger, in talking and
discussing the canal, said that we would negotiate a treaty with an indefinite
time period. And the Panamanians replied very angrily saying they would
negotiate no treaty that disguised "in perpetuity."
This morning you used the phrase "ad infinitum.” I am wondering if that
is a version of disguised "in perpetuity” and what the context of that was intended
to be?
THE PRESIDENT. The context was that the canal would be open to transit by
the United States and all other parties as long as it was economically usable or
viable. That was the context in which I used that phrase.
Q. Are you hoping for a treaty which will continue to grant to U.S. authorities
police power and other such powers within the Canal Zone?
THE PRESIDENT. Certainly. During the term of the treaty, which we would
expect would be 40 to 50 years, which again is the estimated economic viability
and usability of that canal, we would have the right to operate to maintain and
defend it.
CUBAN INVOLVEMENT IN AFRICAN AFFAIRS
[32.] Q. Mr. President, John McDonald with KHTV, here in Houston.
Sources in Washington said yesterday that between 50 and 100 Cubans may
have arrived in Mozambique, and they are training guerrillas for action in
Rhodesia. Now, if this is so and it is "a move" by Cuba, are you planning any
new diplomatic, economic, or military measures?
THE PRESIDENT. We have been assured by all of the African nations that are
involved in that part of Africa that they are not interested whatsoever in any
Cuban involvement in the problems of that very controversial part of the world.
1313
