[387]
April 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
community, including the CIA, the directives that I signed about a month ago,
under my directives would not condone any violation of the law and would
provide for strict enforcement against anybody in the intelligence community
that violated the law.
So, I have already taken care of that problem, and I think the new CIA, the
new intelligence community directives are an affirmative answer to the charges
that are made by the Senate committee.
Q. Well, sir, do you agree with the findings of this committee in regard to
them?
THE PRESIDENT. Well frankly, I have not had an opportunity to read the
volumes of their testimony, or their conclusions. I have to look to the future.
As far as I know, none of the allegations that they made, such as you have in-
dicated, took place since I became President. They may have taken place before-
hand, but I can assure you that they will not take place under the directives
that I have given to the intelligence community, including the CIA.
Q. Do you think Senator Tower, then, is proper in not signing the bill?
THE PRESIDENT. It's not a bill; it's the committee report. I have a great
deal of respect for Senator John Tower. And if he decided not to sign the com-
mittee report, I certainly would back him up.
FORMER PRESIDENT NIXON
[29.] Q. Fred Barnes of the Washington Star.
Mr. President, you mentioned a few minutes ago why you don't use Ronald
Reagan's name while you are campaigning. I have noticed there is another name
you never mention, and that is Richard Nixon. You mention Lyndon Johnson
and Dwight Eisenhower and other Presidents but you only refer to Nixon as
your predecessor or even as Lyndon Johnson's successor. How come you won't
mention his name?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, it's my judgment that that is an unfortunate era, cer-
tainly the period that took place from 1971 or 1973 on, and I think the more that
all of us forget that period and the unfortunate developments, the better.
Q. So, you're saying that you are deliberately not mentioning his name?
THE PRESIDENT. I think it's better for all of us to just not remind ourselves of
that unfortunate period. I do it deliberately.
DEMOCRATIC CROSSOVER VOTE IN TEXAS PRIMARY
[30.] Q. Mr. President, I am Louie Alexander for Newsweek.
Here in Texas we understand that many supporters of Governor George
1312
