[352]
April 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
as long as we inspire them, I think we can get all of the active duty military
personnel that we need under a voluntary program and, therefore, do not need
to utilize a selective service program.
PRESIDENTIAL PRIMARY SYSTEM
[5.] Q. What is your idea of making the primary elections similar to the
November election so that we can vote for the person and not declare our party?
THE PRESIDENT. That is a very interesting suggestion, and I think it certainly
merits some considerable study. As a matter of fact, I believe our whole Presi-
dential primary system needs some in-depth analysis by the Congress, and the
Congress must do it because you will have to amend the Constitution in order
to have a nationwide Presidential primary. And I happen to believe that at a
minimum we ought to have regional primaries for Presidential nominations and
your suggestion would fall into a category that ought to be thoroughly investi-
gated at the time the Congress takes a look at the Presidential primary system,
period.
EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES FOR COLLEGE GRADUATES
[6.] Q. Mr. President, I am a Butler student, and because of this I am con-
cerned because in recent years college graduates have had a hard time getting
jobs once they are out of school. Do you have any encouragement for us, and
do you have any solutions to this problem?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I can be encouraging to you. The students who graduate
in 1976 from Butler or any other college or university will have a much greater
opportunity for getting a job than those who graduated in 1975. In June of 1975,
we were at the trough of the economic recession and it was very, very difficult
for any graduate to get a job. But in the meantime, as I pointed out earlier, in
the last 10 to 12 months, we have increased those gainfully employed in this
country by 2,600,000 and we are at an alltime employment record of 86,600,000.
Now, that does not mean that job opportunities are going to flow to your door-
step but, may I add parenthetically, that has not been the case—well, many other
graduates in other years have had the same experience. But, anyhow, we have
about 2 million new, young labor market entrants every year, including college
and university graduates. We have to expand our private sector because five out
of the six jobs in America today are in the private sector; one out of six are in
government.
So, if you are going to really expand job opportunities, you have to expand
our private sector by tax incentives so that companies will accelerate their mod-
ernization, so that companies will move into areas of high unemployment and
1154
