May 25
[525]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
525
Remarks in San Jose, California. May 25, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Halsey, Congressman Pete McCloskey, Congress-
man Al Bell, your outstanding mayor, Janet Hayes, ladies and gentlemen:
It's just an overwhelming welcome, and from the bottom of my heart I thank
you all very, very much. And let me say, if First Mama was here she would love
each and every one of you. [Laughter]
I really enjoy the company of Americans who are working to bring more
jobs and greater prosperity to our country, and that's why I'm especially pleased
to be with all of you here today.
I have heard about your program. I know what you are trying to do. And I
just compliment you and certainly extend to all of you the respect and admira-
tion of 215 million other Americans. I'm proud of you, as you should be proud
of yourselves.
One of my greatest responsibilities as President has been the task of revital-
izing our economy. In meeting that challenge, I have placed full confidence
in the strength of our free enterprise system and you have shown that faith is
totally and fully justified. On your own here in San Jose, with your enterprise,
your initiative, you have established an international business park to create
millions and millions of dollars in new revenue for this area as well as provide
as many as some 12,000 jobs over the coming years.
The new Foreign Trade Zone within the park will also strengthen our par-
ticipation in the international market. It is good for you, and it is good for the
country, and I wish you the very, very best with your international park and
the trade zone. And I congratulate the members of the Chamber of Commerce
on your new office building, and I thank you all for making my job a good bit
easier. I'm very grateful and very thankful.
Now, your economic outlook here in San Jose looks bright, and I see the op-
timism all over the country, but I think we have to be honest and say it wasn't
always so.
Just 21 months ago America's prosperity and America's economic strength
were threatened by a chilling combination of recession as well as inflation. Some
of America's leading economists and politicians thought it best to impose wage
and price controls to deal with America's economic problems. Others insisted
that we spend massive amounts of Federal dollars to stimulate the economy
despite the danger of feeding an already dangerous inflation.
1715
