May 15
[485]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
BYSTANDER. And you blew it.
The President. We blew it in the right direction, young man, and those
of you who don't agree—and if you would go out and look for a job, you would
get one.
Now, let me say what we have done. We have taken inflation from 12 per-
cent down to less than 3 percent, and that's a good record by any standard.
And in the last year we have added 3,300,000 more people on the payrolls, and
we added 710,000 more on the payrolls in the month of April. And we're going
to get more and more people gainfully employed, even though in April of this
year we had 87,400 more people employed in the United States than any
time in the history of America. That's a darn good record.
And then, as we look around the rest of the world, I can tell you from my
personal experiences that the United States of America-215 million of us—we
are respected as a nation because we are a leader in the world with our allies
on the one hand, and we meet the challenges of our adversaries on the other.
We have got peace now, we achieved it in the last year, and we are going to
keep the peace through strength in the years ahead.
Therefore, when you look at the record, I think it's a record that deserves
support. I think it's a record that I can come to you and say, “Jerry Ford has
done a good job, you ought to keep him on for the next 4 years.”
So, Betty and I are delighted to be in Battle Creek. We are most appreciative
of your coming out on this Saturday afternoon. We thank you for what you
have done in the past, and we urge you to go to the polls on Tuesday. We urge
you to get your friends to go and vote for a record that I think will justify your
support and will give America the kind of leadership that it deserves for the
next 4 years.
Thank you very kindly.
[At this point, the President left the train to greet the community welcoming committee
and members of the public audience. Upon reboarding the train, the President made addi-
tional remarks as follows:]
Gee, you have been just a great audience here in Battle Creek, and it has
made Betty and me feel so wonderful to come back home and see such wonder-
ful people and to go through some of the areas of the State that we visited over
the years and had an opportunity to see the blessings of Michigan.
Really, we are going to do our very best between now and November 2, and
starting next Tuesday to get those votes, to get those delegates, and to get those
votes in November. And with your help next Tuesday, we will win, period.
1603
