April 30
[398]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
THE PRESIDENT. —because in the congressional district I represented, there
were 35,000 UAW-CIO-AFL families, and I took that issue to them every time
for 13 elections. And I would not then and I will not now approve of the removal
of section 14(b) from the Taft-Hartley or labor-management legislation.
FEDERAL AID TO CITIES
[6.] Q. Mr. President, I'm Dan Petty, assistant city manager here in Dallas.
The New York City financial situation-that concerns us all. And we would like
to have your views on the appropriate role and responsibility of the Federal
Government in meeting potential situations such as New York City and other
cities.
THE PRESIDENT. Let me say that the Congress has passed two pieces of legisla-
tion that I think will handle present and future problems where cities, through
bad management, get into serious financial difficulties.
Number one, I recommended to the Congress that we amend the bankruptcy
act so that if a city mishandles its financial affairs, it can go into bankruptcy
just like a poorly managed company or a poorly managed individual in the
handling of his or her or that company's financial affairs.
And believe me, that's a deterrent as far as cities are concerned because they
don't like to go into bankruptcy, and I think it's sort of a roadblock to them.
Secondly, what we had to do—and I think wisely so—in the New York City
situation was to make New York City, after a struggle of some 6 months, to pull
itself up by its bootstraps.
Now, they have taken certain actions to put a ceiling on future pay increases,
to get revision in their pension contracts with their employees, which were way
out of line; to get some of the creditors to hold back on and to make some modi-
fication on the interest payments that were to be made by the city for those
security holders.
They have taken some drastic action, including the State of New York putting
more money up to help and assist them. They're going to modify the no-tuition
situation for the city university. They've done a lot of things.
The only problem they had after they had pulled themselves up by their
bootstraps was a cash-flow problem, and I suspect some of you businessmen
know a little bit about the cash-flow problem. We finally agreed-and I think
wisely so—and let me tell you why-that they could borrow from us on an in-
terim basis with the agreement that they would pay us 1 percent interest over
what our borrowing cost would be.
They borrowed money for the first 2 or 3 months. They have paid their first
1353
