June 8
[583]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
and the return flow from this water to the river was causing a second crest down
the Idaho Falls and that is what is moving down the river now.
The President. At the height of the water flow, how deep was it in Sugar
City?
MR. STAMM. I would estimate about 7 feet but that is purely an estimate. The
press took a number of pictures, and I think they took the ones that they felt
were the worst situations. And I saw one where the water line in the living room
of the home was within a foot or a foot and a half of the ceiling, so that would
indicate the height was about 6 or 7 feet.
The President. How much warning did these people have from the time-
MR. STAMM. About 2 hours. The first leak that was of any concern was dis-
covered about 8:45 in the morning. We got the first notice to the sheriff about
10 o'clock. I got a precise recording of that, but that is essentially it. We ordered
the contractor in to try to do some emergency work. He had two large cater-
pillars in there by 11 o'clock. Both were lost. The operators were saved. At 11:57
the dam went out. And assuming—as I say the specifications and the imple-
mentation appeared to be excellent, but the fact that the water got there (indi-
cating on map) means it had to have gone around there some way and followed
back closely to those curtain walls or got through the curtain walls some way.
The only way we can find out for sure is to tunnel in there.
THE PRESIDENT. What is the best estimate of the loss of life at the present time?
RICHARD L. FELTNER [Assistant Secretary of the Interior for Marketing and
Consumer Services]. The most recent, an hour ago, was 7 dead, 153 injured,
and missing varies from hour to hour, between 80 and 135. People keep on
showing up. In other words, there were scouts-
Secretary KleppE. Scouts have turned up people that were called missing. So
we are down to about 50, I think, that are still missing.
THE PRESIDENT. When I called Governor Andrus Saturday night about 10:45
the count was 150.
MR. STAMM. The first estimate was 150. When I was there the confirmed dead
were four, with a possibility of five. Now, you said you had a later report.
SECRETARY KLEPPE. Seven, and one of those injuries there is one that is listed
as serious.
MR. STAMM. And the fact there was not greater loss was due to the fact we
had tremendous support from the National Guard, the sheriff's office, the radio-
TV media, all concerned. Because the time was short, everybody cooperated.
NOTE: The meeting began at 12:25 p.m. in the
Oval Office at the White House. Thomas P. Dunne,
Administrator of the Federal Disaster Assistance
Administration, also attended the meeting.
1861
