[321]
April 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
EMPLOYMENT OF WOMEN
[10.] Q. Mr. President, my question has to do with women, perhaps before
they are widowed. In spite of the fact that women are more prepared and edu-
cated now to enter and compete in the business world, the high-salaried positions
are still going in higher percentage to men than to women. Women are still
being kept out of the boardrooms. There are several hundred business people
in this room, and I wonder what you could say to them about the hiring, the
promoting, and the respecting of women, capable women, in the business world
today?
THE PRESIDENT. I have no authority to say anything. [Laughter] I would
rather indicate to you and to them that this administration has made great steps
forward in recognizing women for high positions of responsibility. And Texas
has done pretty well. Let me say, Anne Armstrong is doing a super job as our
Ambassador to the Court of St. James, and you should be proud of her, as
we are.
But we have a number of other women in positions of great responsibility in
the Federal Government. The head, or the Chairman of the National Labor
Relations Board, Betty Murphy, is a woman. We have the Secretary of Housing
and Urban Development, Carla Hills. So, throughout this administration we
have a very substantial number of women being recognized in positions of im-
portance and responsibility.
But I don't think I ought to tell this distinguished group, when I am trying
to, you know, get friendly-[laughter-I think you have made the best speech
on that. [Laughter]
DEFENSE SPENDING AND EQUIPMENT
[11.] Q. Mr. President, a lot of people we talked to today are concerned
about the relative stance of the United States as one of the major world powers
and the diminishing portion of the Federal pie spent on defense. What is your
position, and what will be your position when you begin your new term in
1977?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, let me answer the last part first. Seven years ago, out
of the total Federal expenditures, the Defense Department was getting roughly
42 percent of all Federal expenditures, and so-called domestic programs were
getting roughly 31 or 32 percent.
In the 7-year span, the rate of growth of domestic programs has gone up
better than 11 percent and the Defense Department has, in real dollars or in
current dollars, has gone along at about the same level and in real dollars has
1050
