[379]
April 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
of the things that were said, particularly about the security forces of the United
States, I think the answer had to be very direct and very specific, and it was
this morning.
Q. Mr. President, are you accusing him of being unfit to be President of the
United States?
THE PRESIDENT. Oh, I wouldn't put it in that term, Phil. I just simply say that
the defense capabilities of this country are sufficient, they are unsurpassed, and
you have to look at the whole picture rather than little pieces that some people
pick out and want to use as an illustration, which if you do is an unfair and I
think an illogical way to approach our overall defense capabilities.
Q. Mr. President, if you have to run against Jimmy Carter, how do you size
him up? Do you think he will be a tough opponent?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we are concentrating, Wally, on our own campaign
effort and I really haven't thought about any prospective Democrat. We will
meet that head-on after August of 1976.
Q. Mr. President, are you worried that Mr. Reagan's win here could produce
a domino effect?
THE PRESIDENT. Would you repeat it?
Q. Are you worried that Mr. Reagan's win in Texas could produce a domino
effect?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we are closing the gap, as I said earlier, in the last 24
hours, and we don't concede Texas to anybody, whether it's in May or whether
it's in November.
Q Mr. President, you talked about Reagan having a simplistic knowledge of
foreign policy. Do you believe that Jimmy Carter falls in that same category?
THE PRESIDENT. Well we will meet that problem when we get through the
convention in August and the nomination is achieved.
Q. Mr. President, in light of Secretary of State Kissinger's comments about
unrelenting opposition to Ian Smith's government in Rhodesia, does this mean
our Nation will be supporting the black nationalist movement in Africa?
THE PRESIDENT. What we have said-and I'll repeat it very specifically-the
United States traditionally, including our own independence, believes in self-
determination. It means that we have to guarantee the rights of the minority,
and we are seeking, of course, to make certain that no foreign, non-African
country dominates that great continent, and that includes the Soviet Union or
anybody else. This should be a program on a worldwide scale of helping Africans
help themselves. And we're dedicated to, as I said, self-determination and the
protection of guaranteeing minority rights.
1264
