[339]
April 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
JOHN CONNALLY
[4.] Q. Mr. President, as we were coming to the White House today we saw
that former Texas Governor John Connally was leaving.
THE PRESIDENT. You Texans find each other out all the time. [Laughter]
Q. First, would you describe that meeting to us and, second, would you deter-
mine for us if he has been offered a position of Vice President or the position
of a member of the Cabinet in this administration or a future administration?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me tell you the whole story-[laughter-with reserva-
tions. Last night, I called John Connally. I wanted to get his reaction to my
2-days visit to Texas. I found that he was en route to Washington, D.C., so I left
a call where he was going to be staying, and he called me when he arrived. We
chatted for a few minutes. I said, "Why don't you come in? We can talk a little
easier in the Oval Office." So, he came in at 3:45. We had a very broad discussion
on political matters. I can add as a postscript that he was not offered a job. I did
not ask him to support me; he did not volunteer. He is out doing his best to
strengthen the Republican Party at fundraisers and State conventions. And we
had an excellent discussion, but there were no offers or no acceptances. I just
can't go any deeper than that.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
[5.] Q. Mr. President, on another front, can you give us your assessment of
the leadership changes that are taking place in China today, and has there been
any discussion in the White House of military aid to China?
THE PRESIDENT. There has been no discussion in my presence of any military
aid and assistance to the People's Republic of China. There may have been some
discussions that I am not familiar with at a lower level. The new leadership in
the People's Republic of China I did not meet when I was in China in December.
I doubt if any top officials from any government have met the new Premier. We
certainly look forward to an opportunity to meet him, but our knowledge con-
cerning his background is the knowledge primarily that is known through other
channels.
U.S. POLICY TOWARD EASTERN EUROPE
[6.] Q. Mr. President, what is this administration's attitude toward the rela-
tions between the Communist countries of Eastern Europe and the Soviet
Union? We used to talk about them as captive nations, and then for a long time
we did not talk about them at all, and now we talk about organic structures.
What do you think should be the relations between these countries and the
Soviet Union and our attitude toward them?
1124
