April 30
[398]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Q. But I do. You're running for reelection, and if you win, look forward to a
nice term without any thought of people asking you to retire in the next 2 or 3
years because you will be 65. So, that's my question.
Has any thought been given to the idea of extending the mandatory retirement
age in the business sector to perhaps 68 instead of 65? Mandatory, I say, because
there are some who look forward to 65 and retirement, but there are some who
are, as the senior citizenry becomes more physically fit, not only disappointed
but they have nothing to look forward to but retirement and social security.
And this brings me to the point. If there were an extension that way, there
would be 3 years where that sector of the population would still be paying into
social security instead of taking away from it. And at the end of that 3 years,
they would have turned back a maximum salary into the economy instead of
the minimum amount the social security presents.
THE PRESIDENT. I don't believe that the Federal Government ought to decide
what the private sector wants to do about retirement. If a business organization
has individuals over 65 that can contribute significantly to their operation, I
don't think Uncle Sam ought to tell them those individuals can't work for that
company.
That is again an illustration of what the Federal Government ought not to do,
and I oppose that kind of interference in this area just like I have traditionally
over 27 or 28 years of public life. I vigorously oppose the Federal Government
telling businessmen at one level or another that they should do this or not do
that. For the Federal Government to tell people they have to, on a mandatory
basis, retire at 65, I think, is ridiculous.
I feel great at 62, and I expect to feel great at 66 or 68. And I don't expect to
retire on January 20. [Laughter]
U.S. FOREIGN POLICY
[4.] Q. Mr. President, my name is Wayne Reed; I'm with Hudson and
Hudson Realtors here in Dallas. My question concerns détente. Russia's stated
objective is to bury us. Their system doesn't work, and we continually bail them
out. They couldn't feed their people in 1973, 1974, and we bailed them out by
selling them grain. We furnish them with technology to help them close the
gap. We need oil, and they won't sell it to us. It seems like to me this is a one-way
street. Would you comment on this?
THE PRESIDENT. For a period of 25 years or thereabouts, we had a policy in
this country, under Democratic as well as Republican Presidents, of a cold war,
both with the Soviet Union and with the People's Republic of China. And dur-
1351
