May 26
[535]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
gan has indicated publicly on a number of occasions he did not want to be con-
sidered for that opportunity to serve as a Vice-Presidential candidate. But as far
as I'm concerned, I have excluded no Republican from consideration as a Vice-
Presidential nominee.
Q. In view of the fact that each of you has demonstrated great appeal in the
primaries, do you feel that there would be a tremendous unity factor in combin-
ing the two of you on a single ticket?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think I should make any commitment at this time. It
is premature because we have to wait and see how the primaries come up and
how the State conventions work out. It is just too early for us to make any
commitment of the kind that you are suggesting.
CEDAR POINT NATIONAL WILDLIFE REFUGE
[9.] Q. Mr. President, the Congress passed the supplementary appropriation
bill waiting your signature. Included in it is $1.6 million for Cedar Point Na-
tional Wildlife Refuge to rebuild some badly eroded dikes. The people in north-
west Ohio want to know if you are going to sign that and, if you are, how soon?
THE PRESIDENT. I certainly am strongly in favor of the project that you indi-
cate. As a matter of fact, we have been pushing in trying to get that $1.6 million
for that project. We think it is good, and I am personally in support of it, but I
want to wait and personally analyze the overall supplemental appropriation bill
before I make a commitment. I will do it the first thing tomorrow morning. And
we have time before the 10 days expires.
But, as far as that project is concerned, I fully support it. And, if that was a
single item, not a part of a total supplemental appropriation bill, I would sign it
tomorrow morning. But I have an obligation to take a look at all of the other
items that are in the supplemental appropriation bill. I will do it tomorrow, and
hopefully I will be able to sign it because I am strongly in favor of that project.
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT INVESTIGATION OF CONGRESSIONAL MISUSE OF PUBLIC FUNDS
[10.] Q. Mr. President, to follow up on the sex scandal that was discussed
just a few minutes ago, you said that it was a housekeeping measure for the
Congress. Yet we hear that the Justice Department is looking into this for the
possible misuse of Federal moneys. I am wondering if you have asked the Justice
Department to look into that at this point?
THE PRESIDENT. I have not asked the Justice Department to look into it. The
Justice Department is headed by a very able Attorney General, and I am sure
1751
