[649]
July 5
Public Papers of the Presidents
colors. I believe Americans are beautiful-individually, in communities, and
freely joined together by dedication to the United States of America.
I see a growing danger in this country to conformity of thought and taste and
behavior. We need more encouragement and protection for individuality. The
wealth we have of culture, ethnic and religious and racial traditions are valuable
counterbalances to the overpowering sameness and subordination of totalitarian
societies.
The sense of belonging to any group that stands for something decent and
noble, so long as it does not confine free spirits or cultivate hostility to others,
is part of the pride every American should have in the heritage of the past. That
heritage is rooted now, not in England alone-as indebted as we are for the
Magna Carta and the common law-not in Europe alone, or in Africa alone, or
Asia, or on the islands of the sea. The American adventure draws from the best
of all of mankind's long sojourn here on Earth and now reaches out into the solar
system.
You came as strangers among us and you leave here as citizens, equal in funda-
mental rights, equal before the law, with an equal share in the promise of the
future.
Jefferson did not define what the pursuit of happiness means for you or for
me. Our Constitution does not guarantee that any of us will find it. But we are
free to try.
Foreigners like Lafayette, Von Steuben, and Pulaski came to fight in our Revo-
lution because they believed in its principles that they felt were universal. Immi-
grants like Andrew Carnegie came as a poor boy and created a great steel indus-
try, then gave his fortune back to America for libraries, universities, and mu-
seums. Maria Francesca [Ste. Frances Xavier] Cabrini came as a missionary
sister to serve the sick and the poor. Samuel Gompers worked in a sweatshop,
spent his lunchtime helping other immigrant workers learn to read so they could
become citizens. We have gained far, far more than we have given to the mil-
lions who made America their second homeland.
Remember that none of us are more than caretakers of this great country.
Remember that the more freedom you give to others, the more you will have for
yourself. Remember that without law there can be no liberty. And remember, as
well, the rich treasures you brought from whence you came, and let us share
your pride in them. This is the way that we keep our independence as exciting
as the day it was declared and keep the United States of America even more
beautiful than Joseph's coat.
1976
