[494]
May 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
As millions of visitors to Washington will discover this year, this city con-
tains many, many monuments to brave sons of France who helped us in periods
of dire emergency, beginning with the statue to General Rochambeau in
Lafayette Park, just across from the front entrance of the White House. It's
a historic place in our National Capital.
Tonight we pay special tribute to Admiral d'Estaing, who brought the first
French fleet to our assistance in the Revolutionary War. Count d'Estaing's arrival
on July 13, 1778, was stunning news to our opposition at that time and was
a great blessing to the hard-pressed Continentals.
Unfortunately, General Washington never met Admiral d'Estaing. And I
count it a special privilege as the 38th President and I can welcome one of his
descendants to this house and personally express our long-overdue thanks for
the distinguished contribution that was made by one of your predecessors in
our struggle for our independence.
In his honor, we have displayed in this room tonight a bust of the admiral,
which has long resided at the White House. And I am certain that all of you will
agree that it is a distinct pleasure to have the admiral with us on this occasion,
as well as one of his family.
Mr. President, we welcome you tonight both to express our gratitude for
the assistance of France 200 years ago and in recognition of the continuing,
important role which France and the United States must play as allies in the
world today.
France and America will remain united by common devotion to the rights
of man, by a shared concern for the welfare of all peoples, and peace for all
nations. The course of history has drawn France and the United States closer
and closer together in time of war, but we have also stood together in time of
peace, facing the challenges of recession, of inflation, and the energy crisis.
These challenges are no less a threat to the peoples of both of our countries
and the world as a whole than the wars of the past.
Mr. President, by working together we can triumph over these challenges.
And we are on the way to economic recovery both in your country and ours
and in the industrial societies of this world. Much, much progress has been
made through cooperation, through consultation among the industrial democ-
racies. And we owe you a very special debt of gratitude for your leadership in
the past months.
Mr. President, our dialog which began in Martinique some 18 months ago,
continued at Brussels, Helsinki, Rambouillet, and now in Washington, is of
great importance to your people as well as to ours. The continuing dialog has
1622
