1365]
April 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
How much would all of this cost? How long such public payroll jobs would
continue? What the added inflationary impact would be really defies rational
calculation. Never mind the law would get the Federal Government deeper and
deeper and deeper into social and economic planning on a national scale un-
precedented in all our history.
Obviously, I am against the Humphrey-Hawkins bill. Instead, I have pro-
posed tax reductions and other tax incentives to create more and better jobs in
private enterprise. Some were enacted last year and are obviously working.
Others are languishing in the Congress and should be passed promptly to
accelerate employment in hard-hit areas.
My budget provides funds to support adequate unemployment insurance and
proven job training programs until every American who wants to work can
find it. The difference between my approach and that of the Congress couldn't
be more clearcut, and I am delighted, I am glad to join the issue with them.
Putting America back to work is a challenge for all of us who really believe
in the free economic system of private enterprise that has developed over 200
years in the free political environment of this country.
Preventing a resurgence of inflation as recovery proceeds and our economy
expands is also a challenge for each and every one of us. To succeed demands
nothing less than a reversal of the political trends of recent decades which
have brought continuous growth of Federal spending, higher deficits, more bor-
rowing, and an ever-increasing economic role for the Government at the ex-
pense of the private economy.
This is perhaps the decisive issue of our Bicentennial Year, and this issue
is being very clearly drawn on Capitol Hill even as our economic recovery
continues.
The best place to examine this issue now, before it becomes wildly exag-
gerated in election year oratory, is in the Federal budgets for fiscal year 1977,
which begins next October 1, as proposed by the President and by the Congress.
This year, for the first time, there is not one Federal budget recommenda-
tion, but two-mine, as President, and the congressional budget as adopted by
the House and by the Senate. The Senate has set its tentative target figures,
and the House is scheduled to act on it this week. Since the two budget com-
mittees' recommendations differ very slightly, I will refer to the completed Sen-
ate version.
As businessmen and businesswomen you know something about the budgetary
process. You know that a budget is sort of a real world substitute for a crystal
1212
