April 21
[349]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
or by a Democratic President. For these last 2 years as your President, I have
called upon the Congress to approve the two biggest defense budgets in our
American history.
And my pledge to you today is this, that as long as I hold this office I intend
to see to it that the United States will never become second to anybody, period.
Let's look at the record more closely for just a few moments. When I became
President in August of 1974, some 20 months ago, I reaffirmed my conviction
that our military power must be strong enough to carry out three essential ob-
jectives, and I found that we successfully met all three. We were and we remain
today ready and able to protect our own vital security interests. We were and
we remain today ready and able to deter aggression against our allies. And we
were and we remain today ready and able to keep the peace.
Yet, as I was sworn into office, it was also apparent that we could not afford
complacency about our Armed Forces. Quite the contrary. For the past 10 to 15
years the Soviet Union has been striving with dogged determination to overtake
us in military strength. In our own country, on the other hand, many people,
especially in the United States Congress, seemed oblivious to the growing Soviet
military capability. Instead, Congress seemed to believe that we could channel
more and more of our tax dollars into rapidly growing social programs and
that our military should receive a smaller and smaller share of our national
financial resources.
In the 10-year period from 1964 to 1974, estimated in real dollar terms, the
Soviets expanded their defense spending by fully one-third. By stark contrast,
military requests of successive Presidents were slashed by $50 billion in the Con-
gress during this same period. When I became President, defense spending
represented the lowest share of GNP since 1947.
There was cause to be concerned about the future security of the country, par-
ticularly if the Congress continued to hack away at our military budgets. If the
Soviet Union continued to expand its capabilities and we continued to bleed our
own defense forces, it was inevitable that the United States would eventually
become a second-rate power. Clearly the adverse trend had to be reversed, and I
set out to make that one of the foremost objectives of my administration.
In January of 1975, 5 months after I came into office, I submitted my first
budget to the Congress calling for a 10-percent increase in overall defense spend-
ing. However, that year the Congress cut my defense budget request by $6,500
million which included reductions of more than $1,500 million in operation
and maintenance for our forces, more than $3 billion in procurement of weapons
and other equipment, and more than $700 million in research and develop-
1141
