June 11
[588]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
587
Remarks Upon Signing an Appropriations Request for the
Collapse of the Teton Dam in Idaho. June 11, 1976
I AM today sending to the Congress a request for an appropriation of $200
million to provide payments for the victims of flood damage caused by the
collapse of the Teton Dam in Idaho. If additional funds are required, I will
request further appropriations later.
These funds will complement our on-going Federal disaster assistance to
provide further relief for injuries and damages inflicted by the flood. Claims
will be administered by the Department of Interior, in accordance with regula-
tions to be issued by the Secretary, and will be available to claimants at relief
centers now in operation.
I urge the Congress to act promptly on my appropriation request to ensure
that the victims of this tragic catastrophe can rebuild their lives and rebuild their
communities.
I am also directing all Cabinet officers and heads of appropriate Federal
agencies to work in close cooperation with the Department of Interior and
the Federal Disaster Assistance Administration to deliver this and other Federal
disaster assistance to the people and to the communities unfortunately affected
by this tragic catastrophe.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:55 a.m. in the Oval Office at the White House.
588
Exchange With Reporters on Arrival at Springfield, Missouri.
June 11, 1976
THANK YOU very, very much, Kit. I appreciate the hospitality here in Mis-
souri. I am looking forward to spending a good part of the rest of the day
here. I hope to meet as many as possible—all of them if possible—the 1,400-
and-some delegates to the Republican convention in Missouri.
I will talk affirmatively about the progress that we have made in this country
under the Ford administration for the last 22 months. We have restored the
confidence of the American people in the White House. We have turned the
economy around. We have made real headway in the battle against inflation,
and we have added significantly to the number of jobs in the country to an
1867
