[354]
April 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
Okay, don't be so shy. They aren't this way up in Michigan. [Laughter]
QUESTIONS
SINGLE PLATOON FOOTBALL
[1.] Q. Mr. President, I'm Hilliard Gates of WKJG television of Fort
Wayne. Should we return to single platoon football? [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Well, you know, back in the days when I played, when the
ball was round, most of us did play, if we made the team, 50 or 60 minutes. But,
no, I really think that the caliber of football today is infinitely better for the
spectators-gets more kids to play, more interest among the student body. I
wouldn't go back to single platoon football. I think the way it is now, the
quality is better, more kids play. I am for what we have.
Do I see a young lady coming forth here?
FEDERAL REVENUE SHARING PROGRAM
[2] Q. Mr. President, Diana Moore, Indiana Forum, Incorporated. In your
opinion, do you think there is a realistic possibility that the Congress will defeat
the revenue sharing renewal?
THE PRESIDENT. The Congress has been very dilatory in extending the general
revenue sharing legislation which expires December 31 of this year. Last year,
about 9 months ago, I recommended a 534-year extension of the existing law.
It increased, in my recommendations, the annual amount that would go to
States and local units of government.
We have put all kinds of pressure on the Congress, because I think the general
revenue sharing program has been tremendously successful. And let me say
this: If it is not extended, as I recall, Indiana will lose roughly a billion dollars
in the next 5 years. That means that the State and the local units of govern-
ment will either have to reduce services or will have to increase State or local
taxes.
So, if we want to avoid either one of those bad alternatives, the proper way
to handle it is to get the Federal Congress to extend general revenue sharing
along the lines that I have proposed. We are doing all we can. But let me ask
all of you, you are public information educators-we need some help and assist-
ance at the local level, where citizens in Evansville or Kokomo or Indianapolis
or Fort Wayne or South Bend understand that if we don't extend this, either
their taxes are going up or their services are going down. It is just that simple.
1162
