April 9
[318]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
NATO nations, that any Communist government would thoroughly undercut,
undermine the aims and objectives of NATO. And if there is a Communist gov-
ernment in any one of the NATO countries, I think it would have a seriously
adverse impact on the justification and the reason for NATO. I can only say
with emphasis, we vigorously oppose any government in NATO that would
have a Communist head or control-vigorously.
SENATOR HUBERT H. HUMPHREY
[5.] Q. Mr. President, I happened to turn my television set on yesterday just
in time to see Mr. Humphrey talking. He referred to your football playing days
and talked about you seeing the world upside down. He is a very gracious fellow,
but I think if he had been sitting in that hot seat for the 19 months you have
been in it, I think the world would be upside down. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. I am going to recruit you as a speechwriter. [Laughter]
Q. Mr. President, would you initial your portrait for me?
THE PRESIDENT. I tell you what, there are 400 people here.
Q. I won't tell anybody. [Laughter]
The President. We will try and do it, but if I do it for one, I have an obligation
to do it for everybody. But if no one else will ask me—[laughter]—or the other
alternative is to send it to the White House, and we will sign it there and get it
back to you. Let's see how we do it.
Q. Give our love to Betty. [Laughter]
The President. Thank you, I will. She did very well not only for herself but
the Ford family last night. I was very proud of her and she is coming to Texas
next week, I guess. You know she campaigns hard for me, trying to get my votes
up to her polls. [Laughter]
Here is a nice young lady.
FOSTER GRANDPARENTS PROGRAM
[6.] Q. I'm a foster grandparent. I attended a White House conference, and
I was a member of the National Conference on Aging.
THE PRESIDENT. The foster grandparents children is one of the outstanding
programs. It costs relatively little, and it calls on the great talent and the experi-
ence of grandmothers and grandfathers who go to disadvantaged homes pri-
marily and help with the care and the upbringing of these unfortunate children.
And I congratulate you, it is an outstanding program.
Q. Thank you, Mr. President.
1035
