[602]
June 17
Public Papers of the Presidents
sufficient time for careful and thorough analysis of the remaining future financial
pressures.
What is the status of these items?
I am happy to report that the full cost-of-living increase will be included in
July Social Security checks. Unfortunately, the Congress has so far avoided its
responsibility to provide a means of paying for the full cost of the system.
The proposal I am submitting today corrects an inadequate method of adjust-
ing benefit payments which, over time, could mean that many new retirees
would receive Social Security benefits in excess of the highest earnings they
ever received. Such a result was never intended and is clearly undesirable, both
from the standpoint of the individual and the excessive costs to the system.
My proposal would correct this defect by ensuring that future retirement
benefits are a constant share of preretirement earnings. This produces three
important improvements:
-It eliminates the long-term financial deficiency associated with the flaw
(about half the projected long-range deficit), and moves more closely to the
system which Congress intended to create in 1972;
-It helps to stabilize the system despite variations in the economy; and
-It makes individual benefits more predictable than under the current
system.
To insure fairness to those approaching retirement as these proposals are
implemented, I am suggesting a ten-year phase-in period during which those
persons retiring will be assured that their benefits are no lower under the new
formula than they would have been under the old formula at the time the law
goes into effect.
The correction of the flaw will be a major step toward bringing the system
back into financial balance over the long-term. But it is not the complete solution
and we should not pretend that it is. The Social Security Trustees estimate that
even with this legislation, sizeable long-term financial pressures remain.
There is sufficient time, however, to analyze this situation and to correct it.
If action is taken promptly on my proposals the system will not be in jeopardy.
But this should not delay our efforts to identify the further steps needed to protect
the system's permanent financial integrity.
Over the next few years I intend to work with the Congress in resolving
these problems. But the time to begin is now. We must begin immediately to
solve both the short and long-range problems. The corrected benefit formula
that I am submitting today would eliminate more than half of the estimated
long-range financial problem. The .3% increase in employee and employer
1890
