April 23
[358]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
something from some of their questions and they might learn something from
some of my answers. I am very sorry that they have taken that attitude.
Q. Mr. President, there are more and more rumors going around that John
Connally might be the Vice-Presidential nominee. Do you have any further com-
ment on that?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I have said before that John Connally is a man who has
had an outstanding record in public life as Secretary of the Treasury, Secretary
of the Navy, Governor of Texas three times. He certainly is qualified for any
office in the United States, from the Presidency on down.
Q. Is that a possible yes for the Vice-Presidency?
THE PRESIDENT. I am simply saying that he is certainly a contender for that
outstanding office in my administration.
Q. Mr. President, you are being pressured to put more pressure on Congress
to get the Federal Election Commission back in business. Will you do that?
THE PRESIDENT. You know, the Congress has had, since January of this year
when the Supreme Court made the decision—that is almost 90 days ago—to
make a very simple amendment to make the law which Congress passed in 1974
constitutional, but they have higgled and they have haggled and they have
delayed and they have had two vacations. They are on vacation now. I think
Congress ought to come back, finish its job, and send the bill down to me. Some
of the critics and some of the Presidential candidates who are complaining about
me not doing something are Members of Congress—they ought to be back on the
job and finish the job so I can see the legislation.
Q. Mr. President, would you care to comment on the discussions, if you will,
going on between Vice President Rockefeller and Senator Henry Jackson?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, as I understand it—in the first place I have never seen
the actual comments—I said yesterday or the day before that I assume, from
my 25-plus years in the Congress, that all employees that work for the Congress—
for Democrats or Republicans, House or Senate—are not members of the Com-
munist Party. And that is all I can say, that is an assumption that I believe to be
true.
Very nice to see you all. See you tonight.
Q. Mr. President, do you think Lockheed has been the scapegoat for every
company that has dealt in international payments for years doing much the
same thing?
THE PRESIDENT. What I have done to meet the problem, not just Lockheed but
all companies that have reported that they made payments overseas, is to appoint
a Cabinet-level committee headed by the Secretary of Commerce, Mr. Elliot
1185
