April 23
[354]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
So, if you can help us educate people to be cognizant of the danger, it would be
very beneficial.
Q. Well, we are in the process of doing that and, hopefully, everyone will be
trying to get a book that we have just published on revenue sharing. It has just
come out. It tells everyone how it works, and it would make them more aware
in the community so that they can do something.
The President. Well, I am going to Evansville later this morning. And I
understand that in Evansville, over the last 4 or 5 years, Evansville has received
roughly $10 million. They have used it for substantial repaving of their streets;
they have used it for the modernization of their firefighting equipment; they
have used it to help in their police department, citizens protection organization.
Well, if we don't get general revenue sharing extended, either those services
in Evansville will go down or their taxes will have to go up. It is just that simple.
Q. So, you feel that it will not be defeated?
THE PRESIDENT. I can't believe that Congress would be that stupid. [Laughter]
BLUE COLLAR SUPPORT OF THE PRESIDENT
[3.] Q. Mr. President, John Dille,WTRC in Elkhart. According to a story in
yesterday's Wall Street Journal—I believe, with a Pittsburgh dateline—you are
lacking in blue collar support. Could you comment on that?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't agree with that analysis. If you look at the votes we got
in all of the primaries, I think we did quite well. And I don't know on what basis
that story was written. I think it was pure speculation-made a good story, but
I don't think it has any factual background. Certainly, I got a lot of blue collar
support when I was a candidate for Congress for 13 terms. And I am sure that
the policies we have which are aimed at tax reduction and a reduction in the rate
of growth of Federal spending and with the tilt toward the middle class in our
tax reduction programs, that should have a great appeal to the blue collar
workers in this country.
ROLE OF PUBLIC BROADCASTING
[4.] Q. Mr. President, Frank Meek, WFYI public television for Indianapolis.
I was very pleased to see that your administration at least introduced, or caused
to be introduced in the Congress, a bill supporting public broadcasting. What
do you see as the role of public broadcasting in the United States today, Mr.
President?
THE PRESIDENT. I think public broadcasting has a very definite role, in that it
isn't dependent upon the commercial market. It should have its emphasis on
1163
