[321]
April 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
Well, to conclude, we are going to have one or the other in January, because
the present welfare situation can't be tolerated any longer.
MINORITY BUSINESS ENTERPRISE
[3.] Q. Mr. President, I am grateful for the opportunity to raise this ques-
tion with you. Presently, the Office of Minority Business Enterprise exists under
Executive Orders 11458 and 11625, as amended. I am wondering, sir, if you
would address the question of your feeling as to the permanency of this agency
under the present bill, which is before the Senate. I think it is Senate bill 2617,
presented by Senator Bennett Johnston from Louisiana.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I always hesitate to comment on a bill that hasn't passed
the Congress and has come down actually to the White House, because often-
times you start out with a bill with a number on it; by the time it gets to the
Oval Office it only has a number and the substance can be quite different. But
anyhow, I am a firm believer in the Office of Minority Business. I think they
have done a good job.
If they come down with a bill that is sound as far as structure and organiza-
tion and so forth, yes, I would approve it because I believe the concept is good.
And as far as I am concerned, recognizing that it is set up by Executive order,
there wouldn't be any need, as far as I am concerned, to pass the legislation be-
cause it will stay there. I believe in it. I think it has worked well. And if they
come down with a good bill, obviously I would not disagree with it.
VICE-PRESIDENTIAL RUNNING MATE
[4.] Q. Mr. President, I would like to ask you if you would consider Ronald
Reagan as a running mate? [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I responded to that before, and there is no change. We
have a number of outstanding, I think, potential Republican candidates for Vice
President, and they include Governors, former Governors, Members of the
House and Senate and, certainly, on the basis of his experience in public life.
his interest in the future of this country, he ought to be considered, definitely.
But I think it is premature so long as we are going at it the way we are.
[Laughter]
FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION
[5.] Q. Mr. President, I would like to know your stand on the amendment
to the Federal Election Act which, as it comes out of the House, would hamper
corporate political action committees.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, when the Supreme Court-let me go back one step
1046
