[549]
June 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
549
Toasts of the President and King Juan Carlos of Spain at a Dinner
Honoring the King. June 2, 1976
Your Majesties, Your Excellencies, distinguished guests and friends of the
United States and Spain:
We are deeply honored this evening by the presence of Your Majesties, the
King and Queen of Spain, and I say that on behalf of all of the American people.
As representatives of the people of Spain, you are always welcome in our country,
and you are especially welcome in this our Bicentennial Year.
The contributions, we all know in America, of the people of Spain to the
New World are to be found throughout our entire country. The Spanish ex-
plorers ventured into the uncharted wildernesses of our continent long before
the independence of the United States. Many, many American towns and cities,
Your Majesty, bear Spanish names. Much of our architecture reflects the distinc-
tive quality of Spanish artistry. Many thousands of American families proudly
bear names reflecting their Spanish ancestry.
Your Majesty, we recognize the hand, the heart, and the spirit of Spain in the
United States. Our Bicentennial prompts us to pay full tribute to the important
role that Spain has played in our development in this country. But our celebra-
tions focus our attention really toward the future as well as to the present.
As we enter our third century in the United States with the highest expecta-
tions for America's future, we have the same very high expectations as far as
Spain is concerned, particularly under your leadership. This is of great impor-
tance bilaterally. It is even of greater importance to have the shared objectives
of the nations to the west. All Americans wish you the very, very best in the
course on which you are embarked.
In 1953 the United States and Spain embarked on a relationship designed to
further the cooperation and the security of our two peoples. Over the past
quarter of a century, our nations have benefited very measurably by this
relationship.
Our joint determination to build on and to strengthen this cooperation today
is clearly stated in our new Treaty of Friendship and Cooperation. On the
occasion of your most welcome visit, our nations enjoy a growing and a better
relationship. Our relationship has broad support among the American people
and, as you found today when you appeared before the Congress, among the
1774
