April 29
[392]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
sector where five out of every six jobs exist and are available in this great
economy, the free enterprise system of the United States.
These jobs in the private sector have careers attached to them. They offer
you more than a temporary government paycheck. They offer you a future, they
offer you a challenge.
Today, because we made some very tough decisions and stuck with them,
we're recovering in this country in a strong and vigorous way from the worst
economic conditions that America has suffered in a period of 40 years.
We are recovering, not because Government undertook to put every unem-
ployed American on the Federal payroll but because we stimulated the great
American private enterprise system to produce more goods, more services, more
investments, and, as a result, far, far more jobs. They are genuine, long-term
jobs generated by the demands of an improving economy, not by any quick-
fix gimmicks by the Federal Government.
We provided that stimulation through my program of tax cuts for individuals
to increase their purchasing power and tax incentives for business expansion
and job production, not through massive new government spending programs.
In fact, over the last 20 months, I vetoed 48 bills. Thirty-nine of those vetoes
have been sustained and without weakening or threatening our economic re-
covery in any way whatsoever. And you might be interested to know that those
vetoes sustained by the Congress will have saved the taxpayers of this country
some $13 billion. That's not bad. I know a little bit about the Congress. If they
send any more of those wasteful legislative proposals down to the Oval Office,
we will veto them again and again and again.
We now have more Americans on the job than we have had at any other
time in the history of the United States, and all of this happened because the
American people did not panic, because the great American system of free enter-
prise is working.
Finally, we must ask ourselves how can we ensure that your jobs and your
hopes for the future will not be threatened by international events. Your lives
are inseparably linked with the stability of the rest of the world. In a thermo-
nuclear age there can be no lasting accomplishments without a lasting peace.
Here, too, we can be proud of our achievements, our accomplishments. Today,
America is at peace, no Americans are in combat any place in the world, and I
intend to keep it that way by the right policies.
We are meeting the active duty manpower requirements of the Joint Chiefs
of Staff by an all-volunteer recruiting program without the draft. We are at peace,
1325
