[371]
April 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
I know that all of you here particularly understand that role and that each of
you is willing and able to keep America playing that vital role.
Beyond our unsurpassed military capability, we also have the greatest in-
dustrial capacity in the history of mankind. Our farmers outproduce the farmers
of any other nation or of any other period in world history. We lead the world
in education, science, and technology. But, even more importantly, we have the
greatest moral, spiritual resources in any modern nation. And as we enter our
third century of independence let us build on those great strengths and leave a
heritage, a heritage of progress and peace so, so great that future generations can
make the same commitment that we make today.
That commitment can be simply stated, each and every one of us can say with
conviction and dedication: We are proud of America, and we are proud to be
Americans.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spok at 250 pm at Barksdale
Air Force Fase In his op ning remark, he reterred
to Governor Edwin W. Edwards of 1 ouisiana, It.
Gen. Richard M. Hoban, commander of the "th Air
Force Division. Mayors James I. Cathy at Bossier
City and I. Calhoun Ven. Itt Shreveport, and
Gubert R. Shanles. Ir. ¡rewdent the Holiday in
Divic testiva!.
372
Exchange With Reporters in Bossier City, Louisiana.
April 27, 1976
GOOD AFTERNOON.
REPORTER. Mr. President, I understand that today the Senate passed a bill that
would mandate the Federal takeover of Louisiana's grain activities.
THE PRESIDENT. Grain?
Q. Yes.
My understanding is, you in the past have said you might veto such legislation.
What is your position on it today?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, it's my understanding that the Senate, either yesterday
or today, passed what is called the Clark grain inspection bill. It would totally
federalize the grain inspection service not only at the ports but in the inland.
I have indicated that I would veto that legislation.
I strongly favor an improvement and a change in our grain inspection service.
And we submitted a bill to the Congress, we submitted one to the House of
Representatives, the committee on agriculture, and that bill has been changed
somewhat by the House committee.
1230
