[457]
May 11
Public Papers of the Presidents
Congress and by the chairpersons of both the Republican National Committee
and the Democratic National Committee.
I still have serious reservations about certain aspects of the present amend-
ments. For one thing, the bill as presently written will require that the Com-
mission take additional time to consider the effects which the present amend-
ments will have on its previously issued opinions and regulations.
A more fundamental concern is that these amendments jeopardize the inde-
pendence of the Federal Election Commission by permitting either House of
Congress to veto regulations which the Commission, as an executive agency,
issues. This provision not only circumvents the original intent of campaign
reform but, in my opinion, violates the Constitution. I have therefore directed
the Attorney General to challenge the constitutionality of this provision at the
carliest possible opportunity.
Recognizing these weaknesses in the bill, I have nevertheless concluded that
it is in the best interest of the Nation that I sign this legislation. Considerable
effort has been expended by members of both parties to make this bill as fair
and balanced as possible. Moreover, further delay would undermine the fair
and proper conduct of elections this year for seats in the U.S. Senate, the House
of Representatives, and for the Presidency.
Effective regulation of campaign practices depends upon the existence of a
Commission with valid rulemaking and enforcement powers. It is critical that
we maintain the integrity of our election process for all Federal offices so that
all candidates and their respective supporters and contributors are bound by
enforceable laws and regulations which are designed to control questionable
and unfair campaign practices.
I look to the Commission, as soon as it is reappointed, to do an effective job
of administering the campaign laws equitably but forcefully, and in a manner
that minimizes the confusion which is caused by the added complexity of the
present amendments. In this regard, the Commission will be aided by a newly
provided civil enforcement mechanism sufficiently flexible to facilitate volun-
tary compliance through conciliation agreements and, where necessary, penalize
noncompliance through means of civil fines.
In addition, the new legislation refines the provisions intended to control the
size of contributions from a single source by avoiding proliferation of political
action committees which are under common control. Also, this law strengthens
provisions for reporting money spent on campaigns by requiring disclosure of
previously unreported costs of partisan communications which are intended to
affect the outcome of Federal elections.
1530
