[383]
April 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
needed to make certain, to make positive that our military capabilities continue
to be strong in the years ahead, as they must be, if we are able to find the peace
and security that we all seek.
I am determined, as I always have been, to keep America's military capability
unsurpassed by any nation on this globe.
You know, sometimes when I hear the critics complaining about America's
defense policy and America's foreign policy—always complaining but never
offering any programs of their own-I am reminded of one of the finest Texans
I ever had the privilege to know in the United States Congress.
Sam Rayburn served 50 years in Washington with over 3,000 Congressmen
and Senators and 8 different Presidents. At the end of a long day and after he
had worked hard to make a better life for America, when he heard from the
chronic complainers he loved to recall what his father once told him, and this
is his quote: "Any donkey can kick a barn down, but it takes an awfully good
carpenter to build one up."
Now, as far as national security policies of this great country are concerned,
I am convinced that the American people would rather have a President who
is constructively seeking to build the foundations of lasting security than some-
one who spends most of his time trying to kick them down.
Our policies have been successful, and they even promise more success and
more progress in the future. That is the reason I ask your support on May 1
and November 2 and in the challenging years ahead.
Thank you very much, and I will be glad to respond to your questions.
QUESTIONS
DAVIS-BACON ACT
[1.] Q. Mr. President, the Davis-Bacon Act establishes an unrealistically high
floor under the cost of the federally impacted construction. The GAO [General
Accounting Office] is presently making a definitive study of the inflationary
cost-effect of the Davis-Bacon Act. We estimate that the additional and un-
necessary costs due to the Davis-Bacon Act amount to approximately $6 billion.
Do you favor repeal of the Davis-Bacon Act, and will your administration sus-
pend the act for a period of 1 year to demonstrate the impact in savings to
construction?
THE PRESIDENT. When that report comes from the GAO, we will take a look
at it and make a decision. I am familiar with the effort that was made in, I
1276
