May 14
[478]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
I know Tennessee well enough from my many acquaintances here, as well
as those in the Congress-I know Tennessee well enough to know that you
appreciate straight talk. And that's what I'm going to give you here today, just
like I have given it to the American people during the 21 months that I have
had the honor and privilege of being your President.
The day I was sworn in, I said our long national nightmare is over, and it
is. We have totally dispelled the climate of darkness and despair that hung over
Washington. And let me say, I won't let you down in the next 4 years. We
will make the same strong record.
During this 21-month period, I have leveled with the American people. I
said it in my second State of the Union Message, and I say it here again today:
We will promise only what we can deliver, and we will deliver everything that
we promise.
Consider, if you will, where we were in the very first weeks and months of
my Presidency. Then some well-known labor and political leaders were
predicting that the United States of America was headed into a depression and
that only massive action by the Federal Government could avert tragedy.
Inflation was over 12 percent. Unemployment was climbing, and we were
heading into the worst recession in the last 40 years. But instead of listening to
the prophets of doom and gloom, with their quick-fix solutions involving more
big government, we pursued a calm, steady course of relying upon American
energy and American enterprise, and we have produced results.
As a result, today we meet not in the gloom of a recession, but in the full
surge of a steady, confident economic recovery not only in the State of Tennessee
but in 49 other States. We have turned the country around, and we are on the
road to renewed prosperity, mutual trust, and a lasting peace. We cut the annual
rate of inflation by more than 50 percent. We increased employment in the last
year by 3,300,000 new jobs in America.
In the last month, the month of April, we increased employment throughout
the United States by 710,000. The index of consumer confidence—that is, what
you here in this Mid America Mall believe-the index of consumer confidence
is double what it was a year ago.
Now, our recovery just didn't happen-it took place because I rejected bigger
spending, bigger deficits, and bigger government intervention. For example,
I used the veto power 49 times, and 42 of those vetoes were sustained, saving
the American taxpayer-that is you-$13 billion. And if you want to identify
that $13 billion to each of you, that averages out to a saving of $200 per family
that we saved by the vetoes and the help and assistance of Howard Baker, Bill
1579
