[656]
July 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
natural for two nations that share the same fundamental devotion to human
dignity.
Our first Ambassador to England, John Adams, foresaw that future when he
spoke to your great-great-great-grandmother, Queen Charlotte, and said, "Per-
mit me, madam, to recommend to Your Majesty's royal goodness a rising empire
and an infant virgin world. It will, in future [ages] be the glory of these king-
doms to have peopled that country and to have sown there those seeds of science,
of beauty [liberty], of virtue and [of] piety, which alone constitute the pros-
perity of nations and the happiness of the human race."
Now, 200 years later, we have settled our continent. People have come from
every corner of the Earth to share in the hope, the building, and the spirit of our
Republic. On this Bicentennial, Americans have united in a new mood of hope
and of confidence. We are very delighted by your very timely visit and by your
gracious participation in this great reaffirmation of American pride.
John Adam's prophesy has been fulfilled. Your Majesty, you personally at-
tested to the accuracy of his vision that England would someday be proud of
the United States. In 1951 [1957], during your visit to Washington, you stated
that free men everywhere looked toward the United States with affection and
with hope.
The message that has gone out from this great Capital City has brought hope
and courage to a troubled world. This year, I know that you will find the
warmth of your reception even greater than before. You will recognize in the
American people a continuing, unswerving devotion to the principles that have
made our two countries champions of freedom and a new American spirit of
confidence and optimism as the United States enters its third century.
The ties that bind us together have, through two great wars, served as a bul-
wark in the defense of liberty and the dignity of man himself. These ideals, born
and nurtured in our common past, have withstood the test of time.
Our two nations today are working side-by-side in preserving freedom
through commitment to a common defense in the Atlantic alliance, in pursuing
peace and greater global stability, in seeking the well-being of all peoples
through our joint efforts-as in Puerto Rico, a little more than a week ago-to
improve our own societies and to assist the developing nations of the world.
Your Majesty, during the time of your reign and during my service in our
own Government, the world has seen many, many changes. In the last genera-
tion, our two countries have met what sometimes seemed to be insurmountable
obstacles and challenges.
Today's challenges and obstacles are no less serious. They are different, and
1986
