[352]
April 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
instead of giving it in 26 pieces it would go in one piece. So that at the local
level-and this is the crux of the matter-at the local level the people in Indian-
apolis or Kokomo or South Bend or Fort Wayne could make the decision them-
selves how they want to spend that money on their education program in their
hometown.
I think that makes much more sense than having Federal bureaucrats in
Washington in 26 different cases telling the people in Indianapolis how to spend
their money.
INFLATION AND FEDERAL EMPLOYEES PAY INCREASES
[13.] Q. Thank you, Mr. President, for letting me ask this question. I am one
of many thousands of Federal employees who are trying every day to do a job
for the people, to cut costs, and I believe we are doing it with the resources we
have. My question is, however, I was also one of the Federal employees who had
their cost-of-living increase cut, and now I see in the news every day union con-
tracts being negotiated and some elements allowing increase in living costs in
their weekly income or monthly income.
My question is, you said earlier tonight that you wanted to cut inflation, and
you have cut inflation. But where does it stop? What is the minimum? Next fall
the auto workers will be negotiating a contract. If they get an increase in living
costs, we all inevitably will pay for that and the Government's Federal employees
might have to have their cost-of-living increase cut again. I am just wondering
what your plan is for cutting inflation, and what is the minimum inflation rate?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I wish the rate of inflation was zero-the country would
be a lot better off. And we have made a lot of headway, as I indicated.
But let me give you the story of what happened last year as it involved the
almost 2,500,000 Federal civilian employees. And I agree with you that they, as
a whole, seek to do-try to do a good job. They have got a lot of silly rules im-
posed on them by the Congress that make their job harder. But aside from that,
last year when the cost of living amount of 8.6 percent was anticipated, I had
to take a look at what that cost would be to the Federal Government with a
deficit that we had and the burden that we had on all of our society. So, instead
of recommending an 8.6-percent pay increase, I recommended a 5-percent pay
increase and the Congress approved that reduction from 8.6 to 5 percent.
Now, I know that somebody who was expecting 8.6 and got 5 is disappointed,
but let me say this in all sincerity: A Government employee who is classified,
who has civil service status, is not the victim of the peaks and valleys of an eco-
nomic recession. There are few, if any, lay-offs in the Federal Government. Once
1158
