May 23
[506]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
would be foolhardy because it is inevitable, if those negotiations were termi-
nated, that we would have a resumption of the riots that took place in 1964.
It is inevitable that there would be sabotage of the canal, and every military
leader that I have talked to says that sabotage of the canal is a very easy military
operation. It's inevitable that every Latin American country-25, with some 309
million Latin Americans—would be on the side of the Panamanians and against
us. And, inevitably, there would be riots and bloodshed.
We can avoid that if we negotiate a responsible canal treaty of long-term
duration well into the next century and, in the meantime, we keep our national
defense needs and requirements so that they are protected. And, as long as I am
President, they will be protected.
Q. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:30 p.m. in the
Pamplin Sports Center at Lewis and Clark College.
In his opening remarks, he referred to Caroline P.
Stoel, president of the World Affairs Council of
Oregon, and John R. Howard, president, Robert B.
Pamplin, chairman of the board of trustees, and
Liza Morrison, student body president, Lewis and
Clark College.
506
Commencement Address at Warner Pacific College in Portland.
May 23, 1976
Thank you, Dr. Gilliam, Senator Hatfield, my good friends and former col-
leagues in the House of Representatives, Edith Green and Les Arends, members
of the class of 1976, faculty and guests:
Let me congratulate the wonderful choir. Those of us who are so incompetent
in that area greatly admire and appreciate those who are so good. Congratu-
lations.
I am honored to address this year's commencement exercises at Warner Pacific
College. I congratulate today's graduates. I also congratulate the parents, fami-
lies, friends, and President Gilliam and the faculty of this very fine school. I
know that they must all be proud, as I am, to see another group of young
Americans well educated, well prepared to take their place in our Nation's life.
As President, I'm constantly aware that the ultimate authority of our Republic
is not in the White House; it is in the people. That is why I want to finish my
most important job-restoring the public's trust in the Presidency itself. I did
not seek this office, but neither will I shirk it.
When I became President, as you were about to start your junior year, this
country was faced with very serious problems. Underlying those problems was
1655
