[340]
April 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
Through the constructive dialog between our two countries, now in its fifth
year, we are now able to strengthen opportunities for cooperation and parallel
action on many global issues. We share a common concern that the world remain
free from domination by military force or intimidation and that all nations have
the opportunity to develop along their own unique plans.
At the same time, both sides understand the importance of continuing the
process of normalization through joint efforts based on the Shanghai commu-
nique. I stressed in my speech in Honolulu last December, just after returning
from Peking, the determination of my administration to complete the normali-
zation process. This will serve the interest of our two peoples and contribute to
the cause of a more stable world order.
Tom Gates has a long and distinguished record of public service to our country
and involvement in the global concerns of the United States. During his tenure
as Secretary of Defense, he fully realized that America must pursue a policy of
peace through strength. The security problems which the United States faces
have become increasingly subtle and more complex since the period of the
Second World War, when both Tom and I served together in the Navy some
34 years ago on the same ship.
The United States must continue to adapt its foreign policy to changing
circumstances. And our pursuit of a constructive and mutually beneficial rela-
tionship with the People's Republic remains a very cardinal element in our efforts
to adjust to this more complex world.
As you prepare, Tom, for Peking, I am very confident that you will do an
outstanding job of representing the views of the United States. During your
tenure in Peking, you will add another chapter of very distinguished service to
the record of our Liaison Office and to Sino-American relations.
I would like at this time to ask the Chief of Protocol, Henry Catto, to adminis
ter the oath of office.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12 52 pm in the Rose
Garden at the White House. In his opening remarks.
he referred to William W. Scranton, US Representa-
tive to the United Nations, Lt. Gen. Brent Scowcroft,
Jr.. Assistant to the President for National Security
Affairs, and George Bush. Director of Central Intel
ligence.
Ambassador Gates' response to the President's re-
marks is printed in the Weekly Compilation of Press-
dential Documents (vol. 12, p. 654
1130
