May 22
[504]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
was here a couple of days ago, I guess, on his first-but you know who preceded
the whole Ford family coming out to Oregon? Liberty came out here.
[Laughter] And Liberty came back to Washington with nine wonderful pup-
pies. [Laughter]
But anyhow, let me take a minute or two to give you first-hand the theme
that I am trying to spread across the length and the breadth of this country—
very direct, very forthright—that since I became President, we have restored
confidence and trust in the White House.
Since I became President, we have turned around the worst economic reces-
sion in 40 years, and we are on the upswing toward a healthy, prosperous
America.
And, number three, since I became President, we ended the war. We have
achieved the peace. We have the peace. And the programs that we have of a
military strength and diplomatic skill will keep the peace in the future.
We have peace. We are achieving prosperity. And we have restored trust and
confidence. That is what the American people want, and the record is clear.
Let me add just a word or two about the three points that I have made. Au-
gust 8, 1974, wasn't a very good circumstance for this country. And when I took
the oath of office, we had some problems. But we have had an open, forthright,
candid, I think, an administration of integrity.
One basic promise that I have made in all of my political life: I never promise
more than we can produce, and we produce everything that we promise.
If you will go back and check the economic statistics on August 8, 1974, we
were suffering inflation of over 12 percent. The good news that we have gotten
progressively is that the rate of inflation is going down. And for the first 4
months now of 1976, on an annual basis, it's under 3 percent. It's a 75-percent
reduction in the rate of inflation. That's a good record.
A year ago today, unemployment was rampant; employment was falling.
But in the last 12 months we have regained 3,300,000 jobs. In the month of April,
we added 710,000 jobs. And the net result is, as of the last reporting date for
April of this year, there were 86,400,000 people gainfully employed in the United
States-the largest number in the history of our country. That's progress.
As I said earlier, we have achieved the peace, we have the peace, and we are
maintaining the peace. We have the diplomatic skill and the military capability
to handle the problems that we foresee.
I am making a speech in Portland tomorrow night (tonight) on foreign
policy, and I will discuss it in some depth. But I want to assure you that the
United States is unsurpassed in military capability. Our programs for the Army,
1643
