May 16
[488]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
I have tried to follow a course as your President that has led to a strong and
rising prosperity, a renewed trust, and a lasting peace. Throughout 27 years of
my public service in the Nation's Capital, my total commitment was, is, and
always will be a policy of peace through strength.
Because we are militarily powerful, because our national defenses are strong
enough to meet any challenge, to carry out any mission, America is at peace
today. We must maintain that peace. We must advance the prospect for peace
among all nations and make certain that the legacy of peace continues for our
children and our children's children in the years ahead.
Why do we sacrifice? Why have we of my generation, and the generations
before us and the generations that have followed, sacrificed? We work hard.
We save. We do our very best. It is to make the generation that follows us a
happier, a healthier, a more prosperous generation. That is what my parents
did, that is what I am trying to do for my children. And as I look at this great
audience, I know that every grandfather and every grandmother have done it
for their children, and you who have children today are doing exactly the same
thing.
That is the history and the tradition of this great country, and this is what
each one of us, as we make our decisions-whether it is in our work or our
church or in our government-must say to ourselves: How can I make a better
and better America?
So, as I come before you today, I seek a mandate from you to finish the very
important job that I have begun and done the best that I could for the last 21
months—to complete the restoration of faith and trust in the Presidency of the
United States.
I have been honest with you. I have been candid and forthright, and so is my
campaign for the highest office in this great country. I am proud of my country.
I am proud to be an American, just like every one of you are. And in the process
of doing what we can, I want to lead our country away from a wasteful pre-
occupation with what went wrong with America and get on with the job of
making things right in America.
You have shown here in this Bicentennial weekend, in everything you do in
Saginaw Township, that love of country and belief in our ideals not only exist
but thrive in the United States.
In the future, I see an America where the spirit fills each and every one of
us with renewed confidence to face the challenges before us; an America dedi-
cated to the simple but enduring values that give a nation and give its people
1613
