[378]
April 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
year, we are trying to do that. And I am telling you very straightforwardly, I
recognize the problem that developed over a period of 5 years. We are going to
correct it, because the Reserves play a very vital part in our overall national de-
fense program.
DEATH OF MARINE AT SAN DIEGO DEPOT
[4.] Q. Mr. President, I'd like to know how you feel about the death of the
east Texas marine in San Diego at the Marine depot?'
THE PRESIDENT. Well, when I first learned about the tragic incident, I asked
the Secretary of Defense to give me a full report on this incident that ended
very tragically. I have received a report from the Secretary of Defense. It ap-
parently is a matter now in litigation or potential litigation so I, as Commander
in Chief, ought not to comment on the pros or cons.
I have a full report, I know the whole history. It is sad, and it is very tragic.
I can say this, that as a result of that incident and some other developments,
certain aspects of Marine training are being changed, and I think changed for
the good.
CONTINGENCY DEFENSE PLANS
[5.] Q. Mr. President, I believe that you and former Secretary of Defense
Schlesinger have stated that we would engage in limited nuclear warfare in the
defense of South Korea. Could you define limited nuclear warfare and the rami-
fications of such with reference to the Chinese?
THE PRESIDENT. I really don't think that I ought to discuss what we would
do in any potential—if the potential is there of a war, whether it's limited or
nuclear. Certainly we can speculate, but I don't think that I should announce
at a forum like this what we would do based on some speculative assumption
that we would have a reinvasion by North Korea of South Korea or some other
adversary attacking us or attacking an ally.
We have contingency plans to meet all challenges, all challenges. And those
plans are available for the Commander in Chief to make a decision on, under
any circumstances, and I can assure you that we will meet all challenges. And
we have the options as to what we should do. We have the capability to meet
those challenges, and this Commander in Chief will meet any challenges in
the future as decisively as he did when we took action at the time of the Maya-
guez affair.
On Mar. 13, 1976, Pvt. Lynn E. McClure, USMC, of Texas died as a result of injuries sustained or
Dec. 6, 1975, during recruit training at the Marine Recruit Depot in San Diego, Calif
1258
