[387]
April 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
working constructively in trying to find an answer to the limitations
on strategic weapons.
We are trying to work in every way that I know to keep the lid on any out-
breaks throughout the world. We are certainly encouraged by the purchase by
the Soviet Union yesterday of 3,400,000 metric tons of corn and grain, which I
think is an indication of their living up to the agreement that we signed for a
5-year grain sale to the Soviet Union. I don't detect any deterioration in the
constructive elements of a relationship between the Soviet Union and the United
States.
NATIONAL DEFENSE PROGRAMS
[5.] Q. Have what you called Mr. Reagan's superficial and simplistic
charges done any damage internationally, abroad and, if not, why have they
upset you so?
THE PRESIDENT. Because they are not a true picture of our military capability
on the one hand and, on the other, they could very well mislead our allies
abroad and actually mislead some of our adversaries abroad.
We have a comprehensive, I think, a very strong and fundamentally sound
military program. And I can take credit for the fact that we apparently are able
to reverse the trend that Congress imposed on previous Presidents as to our
military capability.
The United States Government-if my military program that I submitted in
January is carried through, there won't be any doubt about the strong and ef-
fective capability of our defense program in the years ahead, so that the charges
made by my opponent, being lacking in depth, overly simplistic, have, in my
judgment, at least created some problems potentially abroad, because people
might believe something that is inaccurate.
THE BUSINESS OF GOVERNMENT DURING THE CAMPAIGN
[6.] Q. Mr. President, Bart Cannon; I'm with the Houston News Service.
Trying to keep up with your campaign around the country, I have noticed
that you made some political appointments in some primary States before you
have gone there, and you have also dropped some grants and some Federal funds
in those States. I am trying to find out if you think the President should use
that kind of influence to buy voters?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, that is a completely inaccurate allegation. The business
of Government has to continue. We can't stop making appointments, we can't
stop agencies from awarding contracts or awards to cities or to States or to
1300
