[368]
April 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
But there are Executive actions which I can take and I am today doing so.
The Federal program to control drug abuse is as diverse as any in govern-
ment, involving some seven Cabinet departments and seventeen agencies. It is
vitally important that the efforts of these departments and agencies be integrated
into an effective overall program but that responsibility for specific program
management rest with the appropriate departments and agencies.
Accordingly, I am today establishing two new Cabinet committees―one for
drug law enforcement and the other for drug abuse prevention, treatment and
rehabilitation.
The Cabinet Committee for Drug Law Enforcement will consist of the At-
torney General as chairman and the Secretaries of the Treasury and Transporta-
tion. The Cabinet Committee on Drug Abuse Prevention, Treatment and Reha-
bilitation will consist of the Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare as
chairman, the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Labor and the Administra-
tor of the Veterans Administration. I charge the Attorney General and the Sec-
retary of HEW, as chairmen of these committees, with responsibility for over-
sight and coordination at all Federal activities within their respective areas.
In carrying out his responsibilities as Chairman of the new Cabinet Commit-
tee on Drug Abuse Prevention, Treatment and Rehabilitation, the Secretary of
HEW should give particular attention to developing expanded vocational reha-
bilitation opportunities for drug addicts. Experience has shown that treatment
alone is not enough. Unless something is done to alter the fundamental condi-
tions which led the individual to seek escape through drug use, a relapse is likely.
A job, with the dignity and self-esteem it brings, is essential to help the individual
re-enter the mainstream of American life. Further, the Secretary of HEW and
the Attorney General will work together to develop plans for improving the co-
ordination between the drug abuse treatment system and the criminal justice
system.
I am directing the Secretary of the Treasury to work with the Commissioner
of the Internal Revenue, in consultation with the Attorney General and the
Administrator of the Drug Abuse Enforcement Administration, to develop a tax
enforcement program aimed at high-level drug traffickers. We know that many
of the biggest drug dealers do not pay income taxes on the enormous profits they
make on this criminal activity. I am confident that a responsible program can
be designed which will promote effective enforcement of the tax laws against
these individuals who are currently violating these laws with impunity.
No matter how hard we fight the problem of drug abuse at home, we cannot
make really significant progress without the continued cooperation of foreign
1222
