[544]
May 31
Public Papers of the Presidents
544
Remarks at Memorial Day Ceremonies at Arlington
National Cemetery. May 31, 1976
Mr. Sutphin, Secretary of the Army, Senator Dole, distinguished Members of
the Congress, members of the diplomatic corps, sponsoring veterans organiza-
tions, General Yerks, ladies and gentlemen:
There is no higher honor or more solemn privilege than to represent our Na-
tion in paying tribute to its honored dead. In this, our 200th year, this day and
this hallowed ground take on a very special meaning. As we mark this anniver-
sary of our national independence, we must remember that the Bicentennial cel-
ebrates more than a successful political revolution which freed America from
foreign rule. The founding of our Nation was more than a political event; it
was an act of faith, a promise to Americans and to the entire world. The Declara-
tion of Independence declared that people can govern themselves, that they can
live in freedom with equal rights, that they can respect the rights of others.
In the two centuries that have passed since 1776, millions upon millions of
Americans have worked and taken up arms when necessary to make that dream
a reality. We can be extremely proud of what they have accomplished. Today,
we are the world's oldest republic. We are at peace. Our Nation and our way of
life endure. We are free.
All who come to Arlington this Memorial Day must reflect upon the sacri-
fices made by those continually brave Americans who lie in rest on these hill-
sides as beneath silent markers at Valley Forge, Gettysburg, and Pearl Harbor.
Their courage won a revolution. Their bravery preserved our Republic. Their
perseverance kept the peace and ensured a heritage of freedom.
It is through their sacrifice that we have a Bicentennial. It is through their
sacrifice that we, the living, have inherited a sacred burden, a trust to honor
the past by working for the future. Other nations have risen to great heights
only to weaken in their resolve. We must not repeat their error.
A nation born of faith and carried forward by action requires from each of
us a commitment to advance individual liberty and to maintain our guard
against those who would threaten our freedom. Although we thank God that
no Americans are dying in battle today, we must renew our resolve to use both
our moral leadership and our material strength to keep the peace.
Over a century ago another President stood before America's fallen at Gettys-
1768
