July 9
[657]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
as you know, is now working for Ronald Reagan in his campaign, said that he
feels the FEC should take action, that the White House is getting unfair treat-
ment at Kansas City—you are getting more rooms. And specifically, according
to Mr. Nofziger, 388 hotel rooms are allotted to the Ford campaign and the
White House, while only 100 rooms are allotted to the Reagan campaign; Ford
groups have received 650 gallery passes, while the Reagan campaign has received
only 300. And because the conventions this time are using tax money, Curtis
is saying that the FEC should take some action. How do you feel about it?
THE PRESIDENT. Of course, you have to recognize my good friend Tom Curtis
is a Reagan delegate, so I would expect he would take that point of view. We are
living up to the letter and the spirit of the law. The decisions in this case were
made by the Republican National Committee. I understand they were made
unanimously, and, as I am told, it doesn't fall within the jurisdiction of the Fed-
eral Election Commission.
But I reiterate that in every instance where there has been a ruling by the FEC,
this administration has lived up to the letter as well as the spirit.
REPUBLICAN VICE-PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE
[8.] Q. Mr. President, do you plan to, in the interest of party unity, throw the
Vice-Presidential nomination up to the convention-not mention any names,
your preference, just let the convention delegates decide?
THE PRESIDENT. We haven't made any decision on that, Phil [Phil Jones, CBS
News]. As I said, I have excluded no one from my consideration as far as a
running mate is concerned. Whether that would be a possibility, it's just pre-
mature to make any commitment.
OLYMPICS DISPUTE OVER TAIWAN
[9.] Q. Mr. President, what would you like for the International Olympic
Committee to do to resolve the dispute between Canada and Taiwan ?
THE PRESIDENT. I think it's tragic that international politics and foreign policy
get involved in international sport competition. I strongly feel that the Olym-
pics are a healthy thing for the world as a whole. Competition between athletes
from all countries ought to be stimulated rather than curtailed. And so, I hope
and trust that the diplomatic problems or the international foreign policy prob-
lems can be resolved so that this healthy competition can go on.
Q. Have you done anything about it? Have you contacted the Canadian
Government?
THE PRESIDENT. I am being kept abreast of it, but this is a decision that gets
1991
