May 14
[475]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
I will be glad now to answer a couple of questions.
Too early in the morning? [Laughter]
REPORTER. Mr. President, Senator Baker said that it would be good for you
to ask Mr. Ronald Reagan to be your Vice-Presidential nominee. What do you
feel about that?
THE PRESIDENT. As I understand it, Mr. Reagan has taken himself out of any
consideration. He made a statement several weeks ago that he would not be a
candidate for Vice President.
Q. Would you consider him, though?
THE PRESIDENT. I certainly have never said I wouldn't, and I was only going
by his own statement. We have an outstanding field of potential Republican
Vice-Presidential candidates, including Senator Baker, Senator Brock, former
Governor Connally, and a number of sitting Governors. So, we have an excel-
lent potential for Vice-Presidential candidates, and I have got one of them
standing right at my right.
Q. Do you plan to name your TVA appointee today?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I do not.
Q. Are you worried about the crossover vote, Mr. President?
THE PRESIDENT. Where? In Michigan or here?
Q. Here.
THE PRESIDENT. I have said repeatedly that we want all voters, whether they
are Republicans, Independents, or Democrats, who have the same political
philosophy that I have, to vote for me. I want this to be a test of the total vote
of individuals, regardless of political label.
Q. Mr. President, why isn't Senator Brock on this trip?
THE PRESIDENT. I believe that Senator Brock is going to meet us in Memphis,
as I understand it. But, you know, he also has a campaign of his own, and as
I recall, this morning he had some committee meeting of some importance that
precluded his being on this particular leg of the trip.
Q. Mr. President, how do you feel about Henry Kissinger in your Cabinet?
The President. Henry Kissinger has done a good job as Secretary of State,
and you can judge that by the fact that we have achieved the peace. And a
Secretary of State's record is what you have to judge him on, and this
administration has achieved the peace. We are in a position to maintain it
through our military capability and our diplomatic skill. And as long as a per-
son does a good job I want him on the job.
REPORTER. Thank you very much.
NOTE: The exchange began at 8:56 a.m. at the Tri-City Airport.
1571
