[440]
May 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
where the ravages of the past have so confidently been replaced with our very
best hopes for the future.
Thank you very kindly.
NOTE: The Prendent spoke at
ང ༡༢ p.m. after tour
ing the opal facilities. In his opening remarks,
he retente i to Secretary of Agriculture Earl I.. Butz
and Maver Edward Zorinks of Omaha.
Full wing has remarks, the President somed Arch-
bishop Danie: E Sheehan
Omaha and Sister Mary Vera O C. An
dent of the Narbut
jatal.
•
RSM. press-
Eetgan Mere Hos-
shovel which broke
grund for the new
Miltons to the hosp
441
Remarks at a President Ford Committee Reception in Omaha.
May 7. 1976
Thank you very much, Roman, Carl Curtis, all of you:
First, I want to thank the people of Nebraska, Omaha, and especially all of
you for the extremely warm welcome and the wonderful hospitality that has
been shown. I'm proud to be a native Nebraskan.
I do want to thank you also for the kind of support and assistance that all of
you have given. Without this kind of aid, cooperation, we couldn't be in this
ballgame and in the situation where we are today-where from all the reports
I get, our chances are very good.
Now, let me, if I might, take just a minute to give you the message as I see it,
which I think epitomizes the last 21 months and which is the foundation from
which, in my judgment, we have built for another good 4 years. If you would re-
fresh your memories just a little, back to August of 1974, and then see what
has transpired in the last 21 months, I think a person can say that there has been
a record of peace, prosperity, and trust established.
You know, in 1974 this country was going through great trauma as far as
the economy was concerned. Inflation was over 12 percent. We have cut it, for
the first 3 months of this year, down to under 3 percent. And the news we got
yesterday about the Wholesale Price Index was one that we could have antici-
pated; you can't always, in this situation, get every one of them as good as they
have been the last 5 months. But the prospects overall, the trend as far as inflation
is concerned is good, and it's going to stay on the decline.
But if you look at the problems concerning the economy jobwise, we got some
excellent news today. The Bureau of Labor Statistics, the Department of Labor
announced that in the month of April we had 700,000 more people on payrolls
1490
