[528]
May 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
were calling for huge emergency Federal subsidies for more and bigger Gov-
ernment programs and higher deficit Government spending.
We didn't panic; we kept our cool. We never lost sight of a belief that I have
had all of my political life: A government big enough to give us everything we
want is a government big enough to take from us everything we have.
We resisted big Government spending programs that would have inevitably
caused larger deficits and even more destructive inflation. We did not go along
with the discredited techniques of old politics: tax and tax, spend and spend,
elect and elect. Instead, we pursued a calm, constructive, conservative point of
view to insure America's economic health not just for an election year, but for
the long pull.
I had faith in you, 215 million Americans from the East to the West, from
the North to the South. I had faith that the American system of private enter-
prise would once again gain its strength that has made us the envy of the world.
Today, we meet not in the gloom of a depression or recession, but in the full
surge of an economic recovery. We have added almost 3,300,000 more jobs since
the bottom of the recession 12 months ago, and 700,000 more jobs in the last
month. But it will not satisfy me until every American who wants a job can
find a job.
Inflation has been cut by more than half, and we will keep the pressure on
so that it won't threaten our economic stability in the future.
I vetoed 49 bills in the last 21-plus months. Forty-two of those vetoes have
been sustained by the responsible Members of the Congress, saving the American
taxpayer-that's you—$13 billion. That's a good record.
Now, let me add a little postscript. If that Congress keeps on sending down
some of these budget-busting, inflationary proposals in the future, I will use
that veto again and again and again for the American benefit of all of you.
You know, it's about time that you get an opportunity to spend your money
the way you want to spend it, instead of letting the Congress spend it for you.
I am deeply determined that your tax dollars work as hard as you as each and
every one of you have worked for them. I want the Government to spend less
and to tax less.
Last year, we reduced Federal income taxes. This year, I propose that begin-
ning July 1 of this year that we have another $10 billion tax reduction-75 per-
cent of it to go to the individual taxpayer so that you can spend your money the
way you want it, and 25 percent to go to industry so they can expand, so they can
modernize and provide more jobs for people all over this country.
As far as individual income tax reductions are concerned, I want the personal
1726
