[411]
April 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
Congress, because we believe the United States has an important stake in a stable
Middle East.
The early warning system in the Sinai is an important investment in peace.
It helps support the Basic Agreement between Egypt and Israel which repre-
sents a significant step toward an overall settlement. Continuing presence of
the system provides in itself an important contribution to stability in the area
and to the creation of a climate of confidence so necessary for further progress
toward a just and durable peace.
The White House,
GERALD R. FORD
April 30, 1976.
NOTE: The report is entitled "Report to the Congress, SSM, United States Sinai Support Mission, April 13,
1976."
412
Message to the Congress on Adjustment Assistance for the
Stainless Steel Flatware Industry. April 30, 1976
To the Congress of the United States:
As required by Section 203(b)(2) of the Trade Act of 1974, I am transmitting
this report to the Congress setting forth my determination to provide adjust-
ment assistance to the U.S. stainless steel table flatware industry producing flat-
ware covered by the affirmative finding of March 1, 1976 of the United States
International Trade Commission (USITC) under section 201(d)(1) of the
Trade Act. As my decision does not provide import relief to that industry, I am
setting forth both the reasons why I have determined that import relief is not
in the national economic interest and other actions I am taking to help the flat-
ware industry, workers, and communities.
I have decided, considering the interests of both the American consumers and
producers, that expedited adjustment assistance is the most effective remedy for
the injury to the U.S. stainless steel table flatware industry and its employees as
a result of imports.
My decision was based upon my evaluation of the national economic inter-
est. A remedy involving import restraints would have resulted in higher prices
for American consumers at a time when lowering the rate of inflation is essential.
Import restraints would also have exposed industrial and agricultural trade
1404
