[416]
May 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
In the case of conventional forces, we have the largest spending program for
the Navy in the history of the United States. What I am saying is we are strong
today and what I want to do is to make sure that that strength continues in the
years ahead and we are going to do it.
Now, let me just conclude with this final comment: We are going to win
Indiana; we are going to Kansas City, and we are going to get that nomina-
tion, and we are going to win in November 1976.
But I must say, a lot depends on what happens in Indiana on Tuesday and,
therefore, every one of us, to the extent, to the time that we can, should make
a maximum effort, by telephone, by door-to-door canvassing, by getting people
to the polls, by convincing individuals that we have a record that is best for
America and the challenger doesn't have any record. And we can do better for
America with what we have done and what we will do in the future.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The Presid nt yok at 10 13 pm in the Beers, chairman of the Allen Counts Central Com-
Three Rivers Ballroom at the Marriott Inn. In his mittee
opening remarks, he referred to Orvas F. (Forrest)
417
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session at a Briefing on
General Revenue Sharing in Indianapolis, Indiana.
May 3, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Mayor Bill Hudnut, Governor Bowen, Lieutenant
Governor Orr, ladies and gentlemen:
It's really a great opportunity, which I thoroughly enjoy, to have the oppor-
tunity of being here in Indianapolis. And I appreciate very greatly, Bill, your
invitation to join with you on this occasion.
Bill, as you know, is a former colleague of mine in the House of Representa-
tives, and I am honored to meet with all of the distinguished representatives of
government throughout the State of Indiana.
Our system of government was founded on the concepts of shared respon-
sibility. Working properly, this system lets you solve your local problems rather
than looking to Washington for every answer. After decades in which more
and more power accumulated in Washington, the flow fortunately has been
reversed. We are on the road to restoring the balance between Federal, State,
and local units of government.
1420
