[437]
May 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
S. 2662 undercuts any incentive the North Vietnamese may have to provide
an accounting for our MIAS.
By mandating a termination of grant military assistance and military as-
sistance advisory groups after fiscal year 1977 unless specifically authorized
by Congress, the bill vitiates two important tools which enable us to respond
to the needs of many countries and maintain vital controls over military
sales programs.
The bill also contains several provisions which violate the constitutional sepa-
ration of executive and legislative powers. By a concurrent resolution passed
by a majority of both Houses, programs authorized by the Congress can be
later reviewed, further restricted, or even terminated. Such frustration of the
ability of the Executive to make operational decisions violates the President's
constitutional authority to conduct our relations with other nations.
While I encourage increased Congressional involvement in the formulation
of foreign policy, the pattern of unprecedented restrictions contained in this
bill requires that I reject such Congressional encroachment on the Executive
Branch's constitutional authority to implement that policy.
Constitutional Objections
With regard to the Constitutional issues posed by S. 2662, this bill contains
an array of objectionable requirements whereby virtually all significant arms
transfer decisions would be subjected on a case-by-case basis to a period of delay
for Congressional review and possible disapproval by concurrent resolution of
the Congress. These provisions are incompatible with the express provision in
the Constitution that a resolution having the force and effect of law must be
presented to the President and, if disapproved, repassed by a two-thirds majority
in the Senate and the House of Representatives. They extend to the Congress
the power to prohibit specific transactions authorized by law without changing
the law-and without following the constitutional process such a change would
require. Moreover, they would involve the Congress directly in the perform-
ance of Executive functions in disregard of the fundamental principle of sepa-
ration of powers. Congress can, by duly adopted legislation, authorize or
prohibit such actions as the execution of contracts or the issuance of export
licenses, but Congress cannot itself participate in the Executive functions of de-
ciding whether to enter into a lawful contract or issue a lawful license, either
directly or through the disapproval procedures contemplated in this bill.
The erosion of the basic distinction between legislative and Executive func-
tions which would result from the enactment of S. 2662, displays itself in an
1482
