[365]
April 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
hit the bottom of the worst recession in 40 years. Between last April and May,
things turned around and began getting better instead of worse.
Consider what has happened since our last meeting. The rate of inflation has
been cut more than half, and for the last 3 months has held steady at an annual
rate of 2.9 percent. The personal, spendable income of American families in-
creased by $100 billion. Farm income is at an alltime high, and so is production.
The gross national product rose during the first quarter of this year at an an-
nual rate of 7.5 percent. While a year ago it was over $1.4 trillion, today it is esti-
mated at over $1.6 trillion. Total retail sales are up more than 17 percent; auto-
mobile sales are up 70 percent over a year ago; food sales are up more than 9
percent; general merchandise is up 13 percent.
Today, more Americans are gainfully employed than ever before in the 200
years of our national history, a total of 86,700,000 at latest reckoning. That means
2,600,000 more men and women are working today than when we met a year ago.
Unemployment is down from a national rate of nearly 9 percent in May of
1975, to 7 percent-still much too high, but moving in the right direction.
In short, instead of meeting in the gloomy depths of a recession, we are as-
sembled this spring in the full surge of economic recovery. Rather than wonder-
ing how much worse things will get, today we see every sign confirming and
reconfirming that a strong and stable prosperity is returning across this great
land.
The index of consumer confidence is double what it was a year ago. New
factory orders have risen from $77 to $90 billion. Individuals and businesses are
spending and investing their money with faith instead of fear. There has been an
explosive release of pent-up energy in the private economy.
America's future looks brighter day by day. Everything that is supposed to be
going up is going up, and everything that is supposed to be going down is going
down. And all this has happened because the American people did not panic,
because the great American system of free enterprise is working. It is being
allowed to work without massive doses of the wrong medicine prescribed by
political quick fixes for far, far too many years. It is working even better than I
had hoped when I put my faith in the vitality of private initiative at the onset of
this recession.
You are here as representatives of millions and millions of Americans who
believe in private initiative and the free economic system. You are the people
who made it work, and I congratulate you for it. I thank you and salute you for
what you have done in the past 12 months.
But I am not here to celebrate with you a battle that has been won; I am here
1210
