[362]
April 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
my experiences in those last 2 or 3 weeks, I would categorically deny any of the
charges as far as I could tell. And, therefore, I won't expand my comments
beyond that, because you asked me what I know and all I know is what I have
said—that I did not see any evidence of the things that they allege in that book.
U.S. PARTICIPATION IN THE UNITED NATIONS
[14] Q. Since the United Nations is controlled mostly by our enemies,
don't you think we could withdraw from the United Nations?
THE PRESIDENT. The question is, do I think we should withdraw from the
United Nations?
I respectfully disagree with that. In my
opinion, you've got 140-some nations
in there at the present time. It's a body where if we continue to do what is
right and stand up and fight for what is right, such as Pat Moynihan did and
as Bill Scranton is doing now, I think we'll get things done the way we want
them done.
If we leave it and let them do it, you have no influence, no impact whatsoever,
and I have never found you can win many ballgames by sitting on the sidelines.
I think you have to get in and play in it, and that is where we ought to be.
NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE
[15.] Q. Is there any chance of a national health insurance program that is
equitable to everybody being passed?
THE PRESIDENT. The question is, is there any possibility of an equitable, fair
national health insurance program being enacted?
I don't believe there is any possibility in 1976. I have for the last 10 years-
8 of those while I was a Member of Congress-seen half a dozen to a dozen
various national health insurance programs recommended by Senator Kennedy
and the American Medical Association, the American Hospital Association-
well, you name it. They all had their own plan.
I have seen none that in my judgment we could afford today. I have seen none
that I think Congress would enact. I see none that have yet balanced out the
equities between the doctor and patient relationship on the one hand, the cost
to the Government on the other, and the bureaucracy problems on another.
Well, there are a whole lot of other plans.
So, to answer your questions, there has been no unanimity on any program
that I have seen that would result in enactment in the foreseeable future.
Now, I would like to add one feature, and this doesn't mean I'm for a par-
ticular national health insurance program because I'm not. But I have become
1206
