April 28
[383]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Court. The bill extensively rewrites the Federal Election Campaign Act of
1975 and places severe restrictions on trade association political action commit-
tees such as the Big 50 Political Action Committee of the Greater Houston Build-
ers Association, and business in general.
The bill would limit solicitations by a trade association political action com-
mittee to 1 per year and would require that each person solicited give approval
to the solicitation and provide that the member not approve any other such
solicitation from a trade association in a calendar year. It will also not allow
businesses or corporations to solicit their employees.
How do you feel about this bill if it is passed with these severe restrictions
on businesses and trade associations?
The President. Let me give you a little history on it, because sometimes his-
tory is forgotten.
In 1974 Congress passed the Election Reform Act, a comprehensive new law
to take care of Federal elections. The Supreme Court, on January 30 of this year,
declared certain very important parts of that law unconstitutional. One of those
provisions was the provision that said that the Federal Election Commission
is unconstitutional under the way Congress wrote the law.
Two or three days after that Court decision, I had the Democratic and Re-
publican leadership of the House and Senate down to meet with me in the
Cabinet Room. I recommended to them early in February that what the Con-
gress should do would be to simply take corrective action to reconstitute the
Federal Election Commission so it would not be unconstitutional under the
Court decision.
Bear in mind, the decision was made by the Court January 30, and here it is
April 28. There is no bill that has come to my desk yet.
I was criticized a week or so ago because I wouldn't commit myself to sign the
legislation. In the meantime, six Democratic candidates for the Presidency and
my Republican opponent went to the Supreme Court and tried to get the Court
to release the money that would come to them under the previous law, and
the Court said no, the Congress better move.
Now, when I met with this group of legislators on yesterday morning to
review this situation, I had people who were in the conference in the House
and the Senate, and they showed me a piece of paper, or several pieces of paper,
and I said, “Well, now, has the conference approved every word in that pro-
posed compromise?" They said, "No we're meeting at 2:30 this afternoon to
finalize our action."
Wouldn't it have been irresponsible on my part if a week ago I had said, yes,
1281
