[417]
May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
At the same time, we have to stimulate greater production of domestic coal.
We are now producing about 600 million tons of U.S. coal at the present time.
By 1985, we have got to produce about 1,200 million tons of U.S. coal, which
happens to be our greatest fossil fuel availability in this country. But beyond that,
we have to do research and development in nuclear energy to make it safer and
to make it more reliable because nuclear energy in the long run is a very economi-
cal way to produce energy in this country.
And thirdly, I think we have to do some increased research and development
in what we call exotic methods of producing energy. Solar energy, for ex-
ample-I increased in the budget that I submitted for this coming fiscal year a
35-percent increase in funds for research and development in solar energy and
about a 25-percent increase in geothermal energy research and development.
These are the things that in time will be very productive. But, we can't say
tomorrow we are going to have an answer with these exotic fuels. But un-
fortunately we are not moving as fast as we should on new sources, and I am
working with the Congress very hard to get them to act rather than to road-
block us.
Q. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:12 a.m. in the
Egyptian Room at the Murat Shrine Temple at the
briefing for local officials. In his opening remarks,
he referred to Governor Onis R. Bowen and Lt. Gov
Robert D. Orr of Indiana
418
The President's News Conference of
May 3, 1976
GOOD MORNING. Won't you all please sit down. I am ready for the first
question.
QUESTIONS
INDIANA PRIMARY
[1] REPORTER. Mr. President, Time magazine has published a poll to the
effect that Jimmy Carter would defeat you if the election were held today, by a
fairly substantial margin. In light of that and your rather convincing defeat in
Texas to Mr. Reagan on Saturday, do you feel that Indiana's primary on Tues-
day is absolutely crucial for you to stop any momentum that Mr. Reagan might
be generating right now?
1434
