April 10
[325]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
THE PRESIDENT. I would expect that all requests for pardon or any other ac-
tion would come through the normal channels, through the Pardon Attorney
in the Department of Justice. It would be inappropriate for me to make any
comment because none of those requests have come to me through the proper
authorities. Until and unless they do, it is inadvisable for me to make any con-
clusion one way or another.
U.S. ASSISTANCE TO ISRAEL; SITUATION IN LEBANON
[4.] Q. Mr. President, in view of the heightened tension in the Middle East,
especially with the Soviet-backed penetration of Syria into Lebanon and in-
creased activity of the PLO, do you think your policy of curtailing defense funds
for Israel is expedient, or do you plan to reexamine that policy with regard to
restoration of the $550 million in interim funds? Also, what is our Government
going to do to prevent a Syrian-Soviet takeover of Lebanon?
The President. First, let me set the record straight. In the fiscal year 1976
budget for foreign aid, I recommended $1.5 billion for military assistance for
Israel, half of which would be forgiven, which means half of it is a grant,
not a sale or a loan. And, in addition, I recommended $700 million in economic
aid and assistance to Israel for a total of $2.2 billion for Israel in a 12-month
period.
Number two, for fiscal year 1977 I recommended $1 billion in military aid and
assistance for Israel, again half of which would be forgiven. And I recommended,
as I recall, $600 million in economic aid and assistance for Israel for a 12-month
period, which means over a 27-month period, I recommended to the Congress
$2.5 billion in military assistance-half of which would be forgiven-and some-
thing over $1 billion in economic aid for Israel. All of my technical advisers in
the executive branch of the Government tell me that those funds are ample for
military as well as economic assistance for Israel.
Now, the Congress, on a tentative basis has added another $500 million for
military assistance. My technical advisers tell me that this is unneeded, unneces-
sary for the security and survival of Israel. I think what I have proposed is fully
adequate to meet any challenge that Israel might have for its security and
survival.
On the second question, our policy in Lebanon, which relates to the whole Mid-
dle East, is, number one, to achieve a cease-fire and a permanent cease-fire; num-
ber two, to accomplish a political settlement of a very complicated and con-
troversial problem in Lebanon; and number three, we are urging every party,
1067
