[401]
April 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
I am told, after talking with the manufacturers in Detroit, that they are going
to meet or exceed that efficiency record, and I think we ought to compliment
them and not condemn them.
NATIONAL SELF-DETERMINATION
[2] Q. Mr. President, my name is Michael Van Horn. And last year you
signed the Helsinki agreement, which in effect has guaranteed the minority
rule in 28 countries of Eastern Europe. Yet this week Henry Kissinger is
traveling throughout Africa with all the might of the United States, asking for
majority rule in Africa.
Now, is this a new policy since last year, or is this a Henry Kissinger
agreement or something? Do we have two different standards for different
continents or different people? I don't understand it.
THE PRESIDENT. Let me correct the record as to what transpired as to Helsinki.
There was no document signed by me or anybody else that said that those
borders in the East or West of Europe are to be forever those borders. Nothing
was signed in that agreement which makes those borders binding forever.
It says that those borders can be changed by peaceful change. That is what
the document says. So, anybody who alleges that we agreed to maintain those
borders, period, for the rest of mankind, that is an inaccurate statement. The
accurate statement is the one that I have given you.
And let me add one other point. We believe, this administration believes
that those Eastern European countries-Poland, Romania, Yugoslavia.
Hungary-all of them we want to be autonomous, we want them to be inde-
pendent of any domination by any other country, including the Soviet Union.
I went to Poland, to Romania, to Yugoslavia just to be certain and positive
that those people in those countries know that the United States wants them
to be independent, autonomous, and free from domination by any other country.
That is our policy in Western Europe. We want them to have the right of
self-determination, which brings me to the policy of South America [Africa].
The history of this country is one of self-determination. We achieved our
independence by self-determination. That is the historical concept that America
has believed in in 200 years. We believe in self-determination. We believe, how-
ever, that in the process of self-determination we must absolutely guarantee the
rights of the minorities in any country where they do have self-determination,
and we will insist in that regard in Africa as we well have tried in other areas.
of the world.
Another part of our policy in South Africa is that we want to make certain
1368
