June 6
[561]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
We got some additional good economic news last Friday. The Department
of Labor indicated that for the fourth successive month we have shown an
alltime high in employment throughout the United States. On Friday, they
announced that 87,700,000 people had jobs in the United States, an alltime high.
It showed a 300,000 gain in the last month, and it indicates a 3,600,000 gain in
the last 12 months.
Unemployment is going down, but it's still too high. And personally, I will
not be satisfied until every American who wants a job has a job. The economic
policies we have tried to follow, when we had the recession a year ago, I think,
are turning out right. The economy is moving again.
A year ago, I recommended and the Congress approved a tax decrease, and
that has been very effective and extremely helpful. In addition, last October I
recommended a substantial reduction in the growth of Federal spending and
an additional $10 billion tax reduction, including an increase in personal ex-
emptions from $750 a person to $1,000 per person. So far, the Congress has
responded in part on the reduction in expenditures, but it is still $17 billion more
than I proposed.
So far, there has not been action on the additional $10 billion recommended
for tax reduction. I hope and trust that between now and adjournment we can
further curtail Federal spending so that the American people will have more
money to spend for themselves, rather than having the Government do it for
them. And I hope before adjournment the Congress can additionally reduce
Federal taxes.
These are the kind of economic policies that have turned this country around
and have started us on a road to economic prosperity and better times in the
future. I am convinced that the American economy is strong and it's going to
get better, and that we'll have the kind of economic prosperity that is essential.
I say, again, I thank the congressional delegation for being here this morning,
and it is a pleasure to be in New Jersey.
I'll be glad to answer a few questions.
REPORTER. Any predictions about how you will do in New Jersey?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think we will do well in New Jersey, and-
Q. How well?
The President. I never pick percentages or numbers. But the Republican
delegation indicates to me that the volunteers and the county leaders and the
leadership in the State are working hard. And with the record we have, I think
we will do well.
Q. Mr. President, Morris Udall has said he would leave it to the New Jersey
1803
