[402]
April 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. That survey certainly ought to be updated based on current
facts.
REFORM OF WELFARE PROGRAMS
[6.] Q. Mr. President, I was hoping that you could point out the differences
to me between a Ronald Reagan social welfare program in view of yours.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, let me point out what I first voted for in the House
of Representatives. In 1972, I voted for the family assistance program which I
think, if it had been approved, would have been a great improvement over
the present program. No question about it, because our welfare programs have
developed over the years—going back primarily to the depression days, we piled
one program on another without any real scientific approach to the overall.
So, I thought the family assistance approach was a great improvement over
what we had.
Now, it didn't get through, so we are faced exactly today where we were in
1969 or thereabouts. We have one of two roads to go. We can either try to
improve, tighten up the existing programs, which are a hodge-podge, or we can
go to an overall approach such as family assistance-I am not saying it is
identical.
We are in the process right now, at the highest level in HEW and other
affected agencies, trying to decide whether you can really sufficiently improve
a hodge-podge program, or whether you ought to go to something like a
family assistance program. And if after the end of this study-which probably
will be completed the latter part of December—we will make a decision. But at
the moment, I don't want to prejudge exactly what our approach ought to be.
I can assure you that we're going to try to put the emphasis, number one, on
helping those who are in need, period. Number two, we are going to try and
have a work incentive part of the program, which I think is basically sound.
We are going to, if we could, consolidate the many programs we have that,
really, I think, don't help the beneficiary but actually frustrate the beneficiary.
So, those are some of the guidelines that we are trying to use in making a final
determination.
QUALITY AND EQUALITY IN EDUCATION
[7.] Q. Mr. President, could you give us a general idea as far as what your
priorities and your ideas are on guaranteeing an equal opportunity for an
education and a quality education for America's young people, and include in
that how you feel that busing fits into that particular scheme?
THE PRESIDENT. My overall thrust, whether it's primary, secondary, or higher
1376
