May 2
[416]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Here is what Senator Barry Goldwater said, and I quote precisely: “I have to
support Ford's position on it"-the Panama Canal-“and I think Reagan would,
too, if he knew more about it." [Laughter]
Then, I might turn over to another page. Later in this program, Barry was
asked another question, and he had several paragraphs, but he ends up with
this: "I would like to see Governor Reagan stop this talk on it,”—again, referring
to the Panama Canal-“because some day someone is going to say 'Well, now
Governor, what would you do about it?'"
So, I think Barry Goldwater is not a bad backup witness on my behalf, and
I think it totally destroys the credibility of Governor Reagan with all the charges
and comments that he has made about the Panama Canal.
We are trying to do the responsible thing and we are not going to give away
our national security interests in that canal, I can assure you of that.
But now let's take one quick minute to talk about what we also inherited in
the way of military problems when I became President. I was sworn in in
August of 1974 and for the previous 8 or 9 years, under different Presidents,
the Congress had repeatedly slashed the defense appropriation bills recom-
mended to the Congress by Mr. Johnson and by Mr. Nixon. As a matter of
fact, in that 7- or 8-year period, the Congress has cut almost $50 billion from
the military budget request by President Johnson or President Nixon-the
money for the Army, the Navy, the Air Force and Marines—and that was be-
ginning to have an ominous problem on our doorstep.
So, when I became President in August, in January of that year I recom-
mended the largest military budget in the history of the United States so we
could turn the corner and get the kind of money that was needed to keep our
strategic and conventional military capabilities unsurpassed.
Unfortunately, the Congress last year again made a reduction. This year I
asked for the largest military budget, $114 billion, the largest in the history of
the country. And this year, I said to the Congress, if you cut that budget I will
veto it because it is too small.
Do you know what has happened? They are now supporting the kind of a
budget that I am fighting for and the kind of a budget that we need to keep
our military capability second to none, unsurpassed, whether it is in strategic
capability or conventional arms.
Let me give you just a thought or two on the kind of funding that I included:
$1,500 million over this year's funding for our strategic military forces; $1 bil-
lion more on research and development for weapons systems down the road—
2, 3, 5, 10 years from now.
1419
