[415]
May 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
security, the answer is categorically no. And if you want to do away with social
security, I would vigorously oppose you.
Q. My point is the continuing escalation of it.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, social security now pays benefits to roughly 35 million
people. And those people over their working years have contributed, along with
their employers, to a fund from which they expect to get certam benefits. And
the Government, in my opinion, has an obligation to see that their payments
do result in the benefits that they are getting.
I think social security can be improved, but under no circumstances, for ox-
ample, would I invest the proceeds into the stock market or would I, in any
other way, interfere with the financial integrity of the Social Security Trust
Fund.
Those 32 million people are expecting their benefits to come from our Goa
ernment for which they made payments, and I am going to make darn sure they
get them.
COURT-ORDERED SCHOOL BUSING
14. Q. I would like your views on forced busing.
THE PRESIDENT. The question is, what are my views on forced busing?
I have consistently, for a period of 10 or more years since the first Supreme
Court decision, called the Brown case-I have said that court-ordered, forced
busing is not the way to achieve quality education. There are better ways of
achieving quality education, and some judges have recognized it and others
have not.
Our emphasis should be on quality education and we can do it without those
kind of court orders that, I think, have gone beyond the proper remedy.
FEDERAL AID TO CITIES
[5.] Q. I'm from Portage, Michigan.
THE PRESIDENT. It's good to see a Michigander here. Laughter'
Q. Thank you.
If we return you to office, what will you do to clean up our all-American
cities like Detroit, or Gary, or any cities like that?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, there are two very important programs. Number one,
I would make sure that the Congress pass what is called revenue sharing, which
has been in existence now for almost 5 years.
I recommended a year ago that it should be extended for 5, vears. This takes
Federal funds and gives that money to local officials, such as your good mavor
here, Bob Armstrong, and those people that are associated with him, or the
1414
