April 30
[400]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Senator Tower has been extremely helpful. And I think we have made tremen-
dous progress, and we are very encouraged.
Q. Are you going to win?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, it's getting closer and closer. It's a good contest and I'm
always optimistic.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The exchange began at 11:40 a.m. at Love Field.
400
Exchange With Reporters on Arrival at Lubbock, Texas.
April 30, 1976
IT'S NICE to see you all and to be in Lubbock again. Nice to see my very old
and very good friend, Sarah McClendon [McClendon News Service]. But I
think if any of you from the local press would like to ask any questions, I would
be delighted to try and answer.
REPORTER. Mr. President, now that you are here at the airport, I would like
to ask you if you know of any plans of the Civil Aeronautics Board to expand
air flight service in Lubbock?
THE PRESIDENT. It is my understanding that those requests are before the
CAB. Because that is an independent regulatory agency, I don't think it is
proper for me to make any decisions for them. That is why they were estab-
lished by Congress, to make an independent evaluation. And I am sure that the
Board will actively consider and come up with a fair and proper decision.
Lubbock is a growing community. Lubbock is an important part of not only
Texas but this part of the country. With the facts you have, I would expect you
would do pretty well.
Q. Mr. President, Ronald Reagan this morning attacked your administra-
tion's economic policies by saying we are not having a sound recovery, that ac-
tually we have a very sick patient in America, and the only difference between
New York and Washington is that Washington has a money printing press.
Would you comment?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I strongly disagree with the Governor's observations
and comments concerning our economic recovery. It is a very inaccurate com-
ment concerning how well we are doing. When you look at the fact when I
became President 20 months ago, we had inflation of over 12 percent and then
compare it with the rate of inflation for the first 3 months of 1976, which is a rate
1361
