April 26
[365]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
to tell you the battle has only begun. We have just begun to fight for the full
recovery and lasting prosperity that can be ours, with benefits ever more widely
shared among the American people, only if we continue on the straight and
narrow course which we are now following.
There are many, many hazards for the helmsman on that course. On the one
side lies inflation, whose cruel rocks have scuttled many great nations of the
past. We have halted the runaway, double-digit inflation that prevailed when I
became President 21 months ago.
There are encouraging signs monthly that we are holding inflationary pres-
sures down. But today we face a tougher test-sustaining the economic re-
covery that has begun and ensuring steady, stable growth without starting
another cycle of inflationary boom that leads inevitably to another recessionary
bust.
On the other side looms the dread shoals of unemployment. It never did
reach the 10 percent, but the unemployment rate is still severe, especially among
younger workers, minorities in certain key industries in metropolitan areas.
The statistics are improving, but the corrosive effect of joblessness cannot
be comprehended by statistics alone. Unemployment affects people's pride,
their hope, their whole attitude toward the free society and the political system
whose 200th birthday we celebrate this year.
Clearly, the creation of an economic climate in which every American who
wants to work has a good job is—along with the safety and the security of our
Nation in a dangerous world—a primary concern of every citizen; certainly,
it is mine.
But putting America back to work is not a job for the President alone or for
the Congress alone, though sometimes Senators and Congressmen seem to
think they can abolish unemployment by passing new laws such as the danger-
ously deceptive Humphrey-Hawkins bill now pending in the Congress.
This Humphrey-Hawkins bill, for which the Congress has budgeted start-
up money, is a classic example of the way the misguided majority in recent
Congresses reacts. Anything that seems wrong with the economy the Federal
Government must rush in and fix, mainly by spending more and more billions
and billions of dollars.
This vast election year boondoggle would decree that unemployment must
be no higher than 3 percent at the end of 4 years. Never mind that this re-
cession will long be forgotten by then. If not enough private jobs are avail-
able, the Federal Government will be required by law to conjure up make-
work jobs.
1211
