[512]
May 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
I'm coming to California, and I'm going to work hard going the length and
the breadth of this great State to see as many people as I can and to give the
message that I hope to give here, as well as elsewhere, because I want a man-
date from California and a mandate from the American people in all other 49
States to finish the job that I started August 9, 1974.
I want to continue the assurance of dignity, the security and the quality of
life experienced by our older Americans. For more than 40 years, America has
made a very firm commitment of support for our older citizens in our society,
not only for those who need help but those who have earned a retirement income
during their working years.
As you all know, there are serious problems facing our social security system.
These problems have been building up over the years and conveniently passed
by and not attacked or not solved by either one administration or another, or
one Congress or another. Unless my reforms that I recommended to the Con-
gress in January of this year are adopted, the Social Security Trust Fund will run
a deficit in this 12 months of $3,500 million, and the next year the deficit will be
$4 billion, and the next year the deficit will be larger and larger.
It's unconscionable that the Congress has failed to face up to the hard facts
of life. And believe me, let me assure you of one thing, very emphatically: My
administration intends to preserve the integrity, the solvency of the social se-
curity system for your benefit and for that of all working Americans now as
well as in the future.
Let me assure you, it would have been very easy in January for the Ford ad-
ministration to duck the problem as others have. But I decided to prevent a de-
cline in social security trust funds, which now pays out far more benefits than
it receives in taxes. I proposed a small payroll tax increase-three-tenths of 1
percent-applying both to employers as well as employees. Under this plan, the
largest increase for any person paying or any employer paying would be less
than $1 per week.
It seems to me that this proposed tax increase, which will help to stabilize the
trust fund, would give us the feeling of good conscience, doing the right thing
regardless of any political consequences so that current and future recipients will
be fully assured of the benefits that they have earned and that they are entitled
to. And I believe that the American people, knowing that 33 million people have
now earned and are receiving retirement benefits and literally millions will
come into the same circumstances, this country made a commitment, this country
must carry out that commitment. And the Ford administration isn't going to play
politics with this problem.
1672
