April 10
[326]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
challenge. I have increased the number of people in the Immigration and Natu-
ralization Service in the fiscal year. We are trying to speed up the deporta-
tion of those who are here illegally. The Rodino bill has not come out of the
committee. It is controversial. There are some who think it puts too much of a
burden on the employer, and some social agencies feel that it is discriminatory,
in part, in the procedures that are used. Others think this is the most effective
way to ferret out and find those illegal aliens that ought to be deported.
If I have to tilt, I will tilt toward the bill, but I recognize it is extremely con-
troversial. And we will see what happens when it gets down to the White House.
I am not making any firm commitment until we see the final bill, but it could
be a way to help solve this problem.
Q. Many of us in the Christian television community attach a lot of signifi-
cance to a candidate's religious commitments.
THE PRESIDENT. My family have been Episcopalians since before my lifetime.
My wife and I both are, but I have taken a commitment in a broader sense, and
I am proud of it.
Q. We have heard it said that you have lots of White House prayer sessions.
THE PRESIDENT. We have a number of prayer group meetings in the White
House. I think it is once a week or once every other week. I go to those occasion-
ally, yes.
Q. Mr. President, the El Paso-Las Cruces area is one of several in the country
that is hoping to be selected as the site for the proposed Federal Solar Energy
Institute. I think the worry is here that even if we can qualify for the technical
qualifications, we may not have the voter population that some other parts of
the country have.
THE PRESIDENT. The final decision will be made by the Energy Research and
Development Agency (Administration) under Dr. Robert Seamans. They have
put out the criteria by which the applications will be judged. Sometime in the
latter part of 1976 a decision will be made. It will be made strictly on the merits.
It is my understanding that El Paso, along with several other Texas communi-
ties, is interested.
There are some other applicants or prospective applicants around the country,
but the final decision will be made strictly on the merits as interpreted under the
criteria issued by the Energy Research and Development Agency (Administra-
tion). Dr. Robert Seamans is the head of that, and I will have full faith in his
final judgment.
Q. Mr. President, Ronald Reagan's continued challenge of yourself for the
Presidential nomination and the failure thus far of John Connally to endorse
1077
