May 25
[528]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
528
Remarks in Walnut Creek, California. May 25, 1976
Thank you very, very kindly State Senator John Nejedly, Mayor Schroder,
Mayor Wesson, Mayor Harman, Mayor LaPointe, distinguished guests, ladies
and gentlemen:
My staff is going to give me the devil for taking my coat off, but when it's
so nice in sunny California, I just can't resist it. [Laughter]
This campaign started in the snowy State and wonderful State of New Hamp-
shire. We got off to a great start there in February, and we're going to end it
with a great day June 8 in the State of California.
It is so great to be here in Walnut Creek, surrounded by some of the most
beautiful land that I have ever had the chance to see and, I must say in addition,
some of the most beautiful people I have ever seen. Your open space program
was a great cooperative effort by the people of Walnut Creek. It showed the
vitality, the initiative that we see right here in your superb business district.
You have shown the dedication to civic achievement, problemsolving, and a
can-do spirit, and I salute you for it. Congratulations.
My message to you today can be summed up in a very few words. As much
as I believe in a strong and prosperous automobile industry, I come here to say
there's absolutely no reason whatsoever for you to trade in a reliable Ford for
a flashier model. [Laughter]
Let me tell you why I'm asking you, my fellow Americans, for your support:
because I have done a good job under the most difficult and the most trying
circumstances, and I want your vote on June 8. I want your help because we
have maintained the peace, we have moved America on the road to prosperity
and restored confidence and trust in the Presidency itself.
I want a mandate from California so that we can say to the American people
that the decision has been made, and we can move arm-in-arm toward victory
in November of 1976.
Peace, prosperity, and trust are my record of performance since I had the
honor of becoming your President. Consider for a moment where we were in
the first months of my Presidency. Inflation had soared to an annual rate of
over 12 percent. Far too many Americans were being laid off and could not
find new jobs.
Just about a year ago, we hit the bottom of our worst recession in 40 years.
Many were urging that the President push the panic button. In Congress, many
1725
