[567]
June 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
across the board. Well, I think we have the record. I think we can win, and we
can help the party. This is what it is all about. Let's see you get 97, so that is 67
from New Jersey, which makes 154 or thereabouts, [1]64-I need that computer.
[Laughter]
Then let me just add a footnote. Don't rule out-I think we might win in
California. I sent the First Lady out there-or First Mama, as she likes to be
called-in order to get my votes up to her polls, and she tells me that things
look very encouraging. So, we are going to win in New Jersey, we are going
to win Ohio, we are going to give them a fight in California. We are going to win
in Kansas City, and we are going to win November 2.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:50 pm. in the
Cleveland Room at the Sheraton Cleveland Hotel In
his opening remarks, he referred to Gov. James A.
Rhodes of Ohio, Senator Robert Tait. Ir. Repre
sentatives Charles A. M sher and Willam | Hughes.
chairman of the Republican committee in Cuyahoga
Counts, and Rav C Ess, Republican nati nal com-
mitter man i Ohi
568
Remarks at the Golden Agers Banquet in Cleveland.
June 6, 1976
THANK YOU very, very much, Tom and Mrs. Boardman. It is wonderful to
stop by and see all these kings and queens and to see so many couples that are
celebrating their 50th wedding anniversaries. Betty and I are hoping to enjoy
our 28th on October 15, and we hope to celebrate our 50th in what-22 years
thereafter. That is the new math that I learned. [Laughter]
But it's great to be here, and particularly at the invitation of Tom Boardman
and the Cleveland Press that I understand has sponsored this fine occasion—
for the 41st year, is it? I think that is tremendous, and I compliment the Cleve-
land Press. I've had the opportunity, as you all know, to travel around the country
a good bit, and I meet lots of wonderful people. But the people that impress
me the most are people like yourselves, who for 50 years have enjoyed the com-
pany of one another, who for 50 years have worked together to make a great
contribution not only to your individual lives, but to the lives of your children,
your neighbors, and your friends. This is, to me, something that is at the
epitome, is at the height of the nice things that happen in this country.
So, I wish each and every one of you a good many more years together, because
what you have contributed in the past, not only to yourself but to your
1818
