April 28
[382]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
course, everyplace I go they say Jack is great, Betty's great-I'm getting a little
self-conscious.
But we have the right programs at home and abroad. We have got outstand-
ing leadership with John Tower. We have got tremendous support from peo-
ple like yourselves. And I can't thank you enough for what you have done, what
you are doing and, boy, that news could be very, very good Saturday night.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:20 p.m. in the G. Tower, chairman of the Texas President Ford
Foyer Lounge at the Tarrant County Convention Committee.
Center. In his remarks, he referred to Senator John
382
Exchange With Reporters on Arrival at Houston, Texas.
April 28, 1976
GOOD AFTERNOON. It's nice to be here, and we've had a wonderful day
and a half in Texas and we're delighted to be in Houston.
And I will be more than pleased to answer any questions.
REPORTER. Mr. President, Ronald Reagan has just completed a couple of days
in Texas in which he has been urging people to cross over and to vote for—
conservative Democrats to cross over and vote for him in the primary. Will
this hurt you, and what are you going to do during your 24 hours or so in Texas
to try to blunt that?
THE PRESIDENT. Well naturally, we are very anxious to have any and all
Texans support my candidacy. We naturally would hope to get a very substantial
part of the Republicans who normally vote Republican, but we would be very
pleased to have Texans, Independents, or Democrats support us, and we want
all elements of the great citizenry of Texas to support my candidacy.
Q. Are you badly hurt if you lose Texas?
THE PRESIDENT. We think, as I've said before, that we've been an underdog.
We're closing the gap. We're going to make it a very close race, and I never
predict what's going to happen in finality until the good citizens of Texas
make the decision, and then we will analyze it.
Q. But if you lose, will it hurt?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, anytime you lose, when you finish second, of course
you lose something. But we are going to continue work, and we will make a
decision on that when the votes are all counted Saturday night.
1271
