April 9
[319]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
good record. When we took over in August of 1974, many Americans were ap-
prehensive. They had lost faith in our government. Our friends abroad weren't
sure what our policies would be; our adversaries around the world were won-
dering whether that was an appropriate time for them to maybe take some
initiatives. And, at home, we were experiencing the worst inflation in this cen-
tury, 12 to 14 percent per year, and we were on the brink-literally on the
brink of the worst economic recession in 40 years.
Now, it wasn't the easiest time to become President. But we decided that
instead of trying to give any quick fixes and short political answers to the
problems, that we would carry out a firm, constructive course and take our
chances in politics. So, instead of trying to spend our way out of the recession,
we decided that it was better to give the free enterprise system, the private
sector, an opportunity to meet the challenge of inflation and to provide more
jobs. And it worked.
We have taken inflation, from over 12 percent, down to 6 percent or less,
and it is going further down. We have gone through high unemployment and
decreasing employment, but the trend has changed. We have now regained
2,600,000 jobs in this country in the last 10 months. We got 375,000 new jobs last
month, and we now have 86,700,000 people gainfully employed, the highest
number of people working in this country in the history of America. We are
going in the right direction. Employment is going up and unemployment is
going down, and we are going to be going there forever.
Now, let me indicate to you how we stand around the world. I have had ex-
tensive conferences with our NATO Allies in Europe. I had a very successful
trip to Japan, our strong ally in that area of the world. I have had numerous
conferences with other people, other leaders in various parts of the world. They
trust America. They believe that we are standing firmly with them, and they
know that we have the capability to stand with them against any adversity or
any adversary. So, we are now in a position of having firmed up our alliances
around the world, and, at the same time, we have convinced our adversaries
that this is no administration to fool around with.
I think that any adversaries we have around the world know that this Presi-
dent is a good Yankee trader. He is going to stick up for the best interests of the
United States and is not under any circumstances going to give it away.
Now, if anybody asks you, “Is the United States number two?" let me point
out, in strategic arms we have more nuclear warheads by far than any other na-
tion in the world. Our ballistic missiles are more accurate and more survivable.
We have more strategic bombers by far than any other nation in the world. And
1037
