April 22
[352]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
build the plant more quickly, so they will have an investment tax credit to im-
prove their efficiency. We have to help industry in order to help college graduates
because that is where your job opportunities really are.
SULFUR DIOXIDE POLLUTION
[7.] Q. Mr. President, I am a student here at Butler University from Cincin-
nati, Ohio. My question is, do you feel that the recent controversy concerning
EPA's chest study on the health effects of sulfur dioxide will have any major
effect on the present air regulation?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, you are referring to the recent decision by EPA that
said, as I recall, the previous decision they had made involving catalytic con-
verters that sulfur dioxide was a very serious problem but now have downgraded
that danger, to some extent.
I have to rely quite frankly on the technicians—the scientists, the engineers.
And if the EPA, after more thoroughly analyzing the results of the tests of the
catalytic converter, have come to that conclusion, I think it is the responsible
position for me to stand by them.
Q. Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. Do you agree? I am not an engineer or a scientist and when
they say sulfur dioxide dangers are not as great as they thought they were 6
months ago, I think the responsible position for me to take is to support them.
REASONS FOR SUPPORTING THE REPUBLICAN PARTY
[8.] Q. Mr. President, I am a Butler student. I would like to ask you what,
in your opinion, does the Republican Party have to offer to the college student?
THE PRESIDENT. I think it can be summarized very quickly. If I were a college
student graduating in 1976, I would be a supporter of the political party that
has given to this country an opportunity in our economic system to have job
opportunities, to get us out of the kind of recession that we were in caused by oil
price increases and agricultural price increases. I would support a party that
´believes in the free enterprise system and not a government-regulated society.
And I would also support a political party that could say that our country,
through good foreign policy and military capability, was at peace. And that is
what we have and that is what we are going to continue.
THE PRESIDENT'S IMAGE
[9.] Q. Mr. President, I am from Evansville, Indiana. On several recent epi-
sodes of Saturday Night Live you have been portrayed as being—[laughter]—
1155
