[501]
May 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
stantial progress. We have reduced the rate of inflation to under 3 percent, a
75-percent reduction. We have added 3,300,000 jobs in the last year-700,000
more jobs in the last month.
We are well on the way to the kind of prosperity that America deserves, and
we are going to get it in the next 4 years. In addition, I think the restoration of
trust and confidence in the White House is obvious to everybody. We had a
hard time at the beginning, but we have convinced the American people that
we have an open, candid, forthright, open-door policy in the White House. And
I think that's what the American people want.
REPORTER. Mr. President, will you support legislation that will allow clear-
cutting in the national forests?
THE PRESIDENT. I strongly support the Humphrey bill, which provides for
good management practices under the control and guidance of the Forest Serv-
ice. I am vigorously opposed to the Randolph substitute, which I think would
inhibit and in effect, prohibit the kind of good management practices which are
necessary.
Q. Mr. President, on Monday the New York State delegation will meet. Is
there some concern on your part of giving those uncommitted delegates to you
before the Tuesday primaries?
THE PRESIDENT. I'm very optimistic that the New York delegation will be in
the Ford column, but that's their decision. I have a good many friends in the
New York delegation. I think they will be sympathetic, but I will let them make
the decision.
Q. Have you urged them to meet earlier than normal? Wouldn't they nor-
mally not convene until closer to the convention?
THE PRESIDENT. Not at all. This is their decision. They, under the leadership
of their State chairman, Dick Rosenbaum, decided that they wanted to take
whatever action they take this weekend.
Q. President Ford, we have a nuclear safeguard initiative on the ballot here.
Would you encourage Oregonians to vote for that?
THE PRESIDENT. I am a strong believer in safe and reliable nuclear power. The
country today has about 55 nuclear plants operating. They have a very good
safety record. Their reliability is good. We have to improve both, but if we don't
use and expand nuclear power the United States will become more and more
dependent on foreign oil cartels. We cannot afford to let foreigners establish
the cost of energy in the United States. So, I believe in nuclear power. And I
therefore hope there will be no restrictions or prohibition artificially and arbi-
trarily applied against nuclear developments.
1636
