April 27
[376]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
now, ought to be the century of the individual, and I can't imagine 215 million
individuals like we have in this country-we'll take them all on.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:13 p.m. in the
Shreveport Convention Hall. In his opening re-
marks, he referred to Representatives Joe D. Wag-
gonner, Jr., and John B. Breaux of Louisiana.
376
Exchange With Reporters on Arrival at Longview,
Texas. April 27, 1976
IT'S a real pleasure to be with Senator John Tower and to meet my good friends
here in Longview and have an opportunity to answer your questions. So, why
don't we get going?
REPORTER. [Inaudible]
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I do. But we're making a lot of headway; I think we're
closing the gap. With the 4 days that I'll be in Texas, I think we have an oppor-
tunity to do better than we thought maybe a month ago. And we might give
them a real tough go; we're sure going to try.
Q. [Inaudible] in this campaign?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, of course, the fact that the economy is doing so well, and
that I can say that our policies, my policies, have been very successful, eliminates
the economy from any contest as far as my opponent is concerned, because he
didn't have anything to do with it. I think our policies, my policies, were very
successful in taking us out of the worst economic situation we've had in 40 years.
So, my opponent has moved into some of the other issues-defense, foreign
policy—which I'm delighted to challenge him on because I think we're right,
and he's wrong. So, I think that's where we're————
Q. Mr. Reagan says you are changing your policy in connection with Panama.
THE PRESIDENT. Oh, I don't think we've changed the policy at all. I may have
been a little imprecise at one point, but we haven't changed the policy. Mr.
Reagan wants to discontinue the negotiations and lead to more riots, more blood-
shed, antagonizing 309 million South Americans, and inevitably leading to
doubling or tripling our military forces in the Panama.
I think that's irresponsible. Our policy is one of negotiation that will seek to
maintain our operational, our defense capability in the Panamas, and will, under
no circumstances, give away anything involving our national security. I don't
1247
