[505]
May 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
Instead of taking you around the world tonight and telling you how many
countries I have seen and statesmen I have met or how many hours I have spent
with the National Security Council before making the tough decisions of the
past 22 months, let me tell you how I arrived at the conviction I have about
America's place in the world.
I graduated from the University of Michigan in 1935, torn between my life-
long dream of being a lawyer and making some money playing professional
football. [Laughter] I didn't think much about foreign affairs or government
or even politics.
My first look at the Pacific Ocean was when I went to San Francisco to play
in the Shrine East-West New Year's football game. A few months later, I got
my first look at the Atlantic. Ducky Pond offered me a job as an assistant football
coach at Yale, and I hoped to study law at the same time.
But Yale Law School had an ironclad rule against students holding fulltime
jobs, and it took me 2 years. I took one summer off in 1940 to campaign for
Wendell Willkie, my first involvement in the political process.
Between the law library and the locker room, we knew that the war clouds
over Europe and Asia were darkening our own skies. And Willkie was right
in saying America was part of one world. We felt in our hearts that the United
States should stand with the forces of freedom and decency against Hitler's out-
rages, but we had grown up in the wake of the First World War, and maybe
this time America ought to mind its own business.
I had just hung up my Yale diploma in Grand Rapids, Michigan, when
Pearl Harbor was attacked, and soon I was back to the Pacific again. For me
and millions of others, that was a drastic turning point.
We returned from World War II determined to build a peace that would
last for our children and their children. We were convinced this could only
happen if the United States assumed its full responsibility of leadership in the
world. We considered that a very small price compared to the sacrifices our
comrades had made. We went home to convince our friends as well as our
neighbors.
We knew then, as we know today, that only through the strength and staying
power and firm purpose of America could peace be maintained and freedom
secured.
I ran for Congress in 1948 on a policy just like that, of strength and respon-
sibility and perseverance in the face of the new Communist challenge, and that
is still my position today.
1646
