[562]
June 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
admire the Great Falls. They saw its beauty as its only natural resource. But
Hamilton found more than just the beauty of the Great Falls which delighted
his eyes. When Hamilton first saw the falls, as an aide to General Washington,
they fired Hamilton's imagination. He saw them as a power supply with raw
materials, abundant labor, and ready markets nearby.
Before Paterson was much more than a name on a piece of paper, Hamilton
saw it as the cradle of American industrial might. A lot of water has flowed
over the Great Falls since those days. Paterson did become a cradle which nur-
tured such American industrial products as Roger's locomotive, the Colt re-
volver, the Holland submarine, and the Curtiss-Wright aircraft.
Today, we are making this historic district a monument to the genius and
to the efforts of the workers, the engineers, the businessmen who turned Hamil-
ton's vision of an industrial, powerful nation into a reality. We can see the
Great Falls as a symbol of the industrial might which helps to make America
the most powerful nation in the world, a nation that each and every one of
us can be very proud of in 1976, our Bicentennial Year. We can see it as a symbol
of industrial democracy, which makes a vast array of material goods available
to all of our people.
You, yourselves, are making this district much more than just a monument.
You are using the historic part of Paterson as an asset to future growth. You
plan to reactivate the Great Falls hydroelectric plant close by this site. In addi-
tion to its historical value, the plant could provide a very useful amount of
electrical energy. It will serve as a symbol of Paterson's rebirth. And, Mr. Mayor,
and all of the citizens of Paterson, I congratulate you on your vision, your
energy, and your drive. And I look forward, as all of you do, to Paterson moving
up and up as a place for industry, as a wonderful place to live. And I love being
here today.
It should also serve as a reminder that America's dependence on imported
energy jeopardizes our country's future economic growth. We have tried to do
our part by proposing an effective energy program, and with the help of the
United States Congress that program will go a long, long way toward solving
America's energy program and problems.
In Paterson, you are using your vision and your imagination yourselves. And
I am proud that the Federal Government has played its part by giving Paterson
some of the financial aid that will help make it once again a booming example
of what America's mighty economy has to offer.
The ancient energy of the Great Falls themselves and the new energy of the
citizens of Paterson can propel this area into a new age, even greater than that
1806
