[578]
June 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
store that confidence. And I decided at that time, the only way that a President
could do that was to be open, to be frank, to be forthright, to be candid. In the
last 22 months, your President has stood for those things; we have had an
open administration. And the net result is the American people trust their Pres-
ident and have confidence in the White House.
Twenty-two months ago we were suffering with inflation of 12 percent or
higher. Your earnings were being eroded. Your taxes were too high. We were
on the brink of a serious recession, the worst one in 40 years. But what have we
done? We've turned it around. We have done it the right way. We have reduced
inflation from 12 percent or higher to 3 percent or lower. That's a 75-percent
reduction in the rate of inflation. That's a darn good record.
A year ago unemployment was going up, employment was going down. We
have turned it around. Right now, we have 87,700,000 people gainfully em-
ployed-the most jobs in the history of the United States. And that is a darn
good record. Incidentally, we have added 3,600,000 jobs in the last 12 months,
300,000 jobs in the last month. But, I am not satisfied. I won't be satisfied until
we get a job for everybody who wants a job and will look for a job.
Twenty-two months ago our Federal taxes were too high. In 1975 we cut
Federal taxes a total of some $23 billion-75 percent of it going to individuals
and 25 percent of it going to business.
When I submitted the budget for this coming fiscal year, in January of this
year, I decided that Federal spending was too high, and I recommended a 50-
percent cut in the growth of Federal spending. And we're going to do better
than that. And if the irresponsible Members of the Congress-none of these
people sitting up here-send me some budget-busting, deficit-spending bills, I
will veto them again and again and again.
But in January of this year, I decided we ought to have another tax cut. That's
the way to give all of you an opportunity to spend your money, instead of hav-
ing the bureaucrats in Washington spend it. So, I recommended a $10 billion tax
cut to begin July 1, which would include the increase of your personal exemp-
tions from $750 per person to $1,000 per person. So, get the Congress to do it.
Now, let's talk about peace. When I became President, we were still at war
some 8,000 miles away. That war has been ended. We have achieved the peace.
We have the military capability, we have the diplomatic skill to keep the peace.
And I can assure you that this administration, because we're strong, because we
are skillful, because the American people have the will and the resolution, we're
going to keep the peace in the future, period.
I might remind you, there is not an American boy fighting on foreign soil
1842
