April 30
[408]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
we ought to say if you know what the facts are, you can be critical, and you can
have a program, but he charges we are number two and admits himself he
doesn't have enough information to make a valid accusation.
So, I say we are on the way because we have a good program, a program of
strength for America, a program of success for our economy, and I believe
as the momentum between now and 7:00 p.m. tomorrow night, we are going
to surprise him, we are going to make this race one that we can win.
Thank you very, very much.
I thank all of you on behalf of Betty and Jack and Mike and Steve and Susan
and myself for what you have done, and I am deeply grateful for the sacrifice
and effort that each of you have made. We won't let you down. I will make
sure of that.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:12 p.m. at the Abilene Civic Center.
408
Remarks at a Reception in Abilene for Members of the
Abilene Jaycees. April 30, 1976
THANK YOU very, very much, Mayor Hughes, and I will honor and treasure
the privilege of being an honorary citizen of the great city of Abilene. I also
am grateful for the fact that I am excused from paying any taxes. [Laughter]
I wish I could show reciprocity to you. [Laughter] Although you are a Buick
dealer and my name is Ford, I have a great, great interest in a prosperous and
healthy automobile industry. But as strongly as I feel the automobile industry
is a great contributor to our economic well-being, I would respectfully suggest
that 1976 is not a good year for all of you to trade in your Ford for another.
[Laughter]
I was telling Billy Taylor earlier that a good many years ago I was an active
member, a very devoted participant in the Jaycees in my home town of Grand
Rapids, Michigan before World War II and then 4 years later when I came back
and was for several years before reaching that age limit. I know what Jaycees
do all over the country. I'm not familiar with your individual projects here in
Abilene, but I have never found a Jaycee chapter that wasn't a major contributor
to a better life in the community in which they operated.
Jaycees raise money in the right way. They spent it for the benefit of their
fellow citizens. And their projects and their aims and their ideals are those I
1399
