April 9
[317]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
317
Remarks at the Alamo in San Antonio. April 9, 1976
Thank you very much, Senator Tower, Mayor Cockrell, honored guests, ladies
and gentlemen:
May I at this time express my very deep appreciation and gratitude to Mayor
Cockrell for the very thoughtful and very beautiful gift on behalf of the people
of San Antonio. I can say without any hesitation or reservation that both Betty
and I will prize this very, very highly. And I thank you very, very much.
At the outset, may I thank the San Antonio Bicentennial Committee and
the Daughters of the Republic of Texas for making this memorable occasion
possible. It is a tremendous honor for me to join all of you in a new commemo-
ration of the cradle of Texas liberty. These hallowed grounds were already in
physical ruins when Colonel Travis sounded his battle call for the people of
Texas and all Americans in the world.
But because of a single great battle, the Alamo has put on the immortality of
history. More than a shrine to Texas valor, more than a landmark of American
courage, the Alamo is a monument to human freedom. Here the eyes of Texas
and the attention of the world focused on more than 180 remarkable men who
gave all they had to give in the defense of liberty.
The names of some of these very brave defenders are written large on the
pages of history. Travis and Davy Crockett and Jim Bowie, among others, have
entered the domain of American legend as well as lore. But these were only a
few of the more than 180 valiant men who waited out a deadly siege and fought
against incredible odds for days on end in the defense of the Alamo, of Texas,
and our great liberty in America.
We rarely hear of Joseph Bayliss or Antonio Fuentes or Robert Musselman or
Charles Zanco, but these men were here too. They fought and died with the
same courage that marked their more celebrated compatriots and their names
too, have been written on the rolls of honor that history reserves for only a few.
Some of these men came here believing one hour of glorious life is worth an
age without a name. Others thirsted for battle with the Napoleon of the West,
Santa Anna, but all of them came to the defense of this capital fortress knowing
full well that they would meet victory or death.
Like America's Revolutionary heroes a half a century earlier these were men
yearning for freedom and a new life. And like those earlier patriots, these men
1029
