April 30
[406]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
trols on petroleum products. I also pledged that I would use all the flexibility
available in the legislation to allow the increases in crude oil prices that are neces-
sary to stimulate domestic oil production.
We have already sent to the Congress the plan for the decontrol of residual
oil and this decontrol plan will go into effect in a very few weeks. Plans are also
being made—prepared, I should say to decontrol distillates and gasoline.
We are moving in the right direction in this area, both to provide the produc-
tion incentives that we need and to reduce the control in the Federal bureauc-
racy. But my goal is, my goal has been, and my goal will be to continue the
removal of all price controls from oil and new natural gas as the best way.
Last week, the Texas Independent Producers and Royalty Owners Associa-
tion expressed its support for my efforts to achieve energy independence. I am
deeply grateful for that support from one of the largest and most influential
associations in Texas, and let me assure you that I intend to keep right on with
these efforts for the next 4 years until we get total decontrol.
Meanwhile, my administration has pulled us out of the worst economic
recession in 40 years. When I became President, in August of 1974, the Con-
sumer Price Index was at a runaway rate of 12 percent or more. In the first 3
months of 1976, we cut that rate to less than 3 percent, reducing the rate of infla-
tion by 75 percent over this span of some 20 months.
Just last week the Commerce Department reported that the gross national
product, representing the value of all the goods and services produced in Amer-
ica, rose at an annual rate of 7½ percent. That is about 5 percent better than
we anticipated.
On the job front, which is of deep concern to all of us, more Americans are
gainfully employed at this time than at any time in the history of the United
States. More than 86,700,000 are in our work force today. And five out of six
of those jobs are in the private sector, and considering where we started from,
that is a darn good comeback by any standard.
Try as they might, even my opponents find it somewhat difficult to dispute
the fact that we have made very substantial economic progress since the low
point of the recession, just about a year ago. We are on the way to a new pros-
perity in the United States, and I will not rest until every American who wants
a job can find a job, and we have put all of America back to work.
As I said a moment ago, five out of the six jobs in our society are in the pri-
vate sector. Now, there are or have been, some in the Congress, particularly,
that wanted us to come out of this economic recession by loading up the Fed-
1387
