June 7
[576]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
think it's significant. We are still an underdog, but the pendulum is beginning
to swing, and I don't rule out the possibility we could surprise them.
Q. Mr. President, do you attribute that strength to the Rhodesia comments
of your opponent?
THE PRESIDENT. I am sure the public in California, like that in Ohio, and New
Jersey, are interested as to what a President would do, whether he would com-
mit U.S. military personnel to Rhodesia, or South Africa. That is a matter of
deep concern to an awful lot of Americans and undoubtedly has had some effect.
Q. Mr. President, your campaign ads in California say Governor Reagan
could not start a war, President Reagan could. Do you, in your heart, believe that
Reagan as President could start a war?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, he said that he would commit U.S. military troops to
Rhodesia. That is what he said.
Q. I mean, is it just on that basis that you are saying or your sponsor is saying
President Reagan could start a war?
THE PRESIDENT. When you send troops-
Q. It sounds like he's a warmonger.
The President. Well, when you commit U.S. military troops to what, 8,000,
10,000 miles away in a hotbed of a conflict between two very controversial sides,
you are sending American boys to get themselves involved in a conflict that is
inevitable. That's been our experience, and I don't see why anybody seeking the
Presidency should make that kind of a commitment.
Q. Well, is he is he a warmonger?
THE PRESIDENT. I said what he said. He would commit U.S. military personnel.
Q. Mr. President, apparently today Ronald Reagan was asked if he would
endorse you if you got the nomination, and he said he would not say what he
would do. He said he was not sure what he would do. Would you have any
response to that?
THE PRESIDENT. I'm very disappointed that someone might—I say might—put
a personal view above the party view and above the team's view. I have said that
I have always supported the Republican Party, its candidates, and I would hope
that a person could be unselfish, could be generous, could be more interested
in the party and its principles than any personality. I'm very surprised.
Q. Mr. President, you've implied Governor Reagan would get us into another
Vietnam.
The President. All I'm saying is he has said that he would commit U.S.
military personnel to Rhodesia. I have not said anything beyond that. That is
what he said.
1837
