May 2
[415]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
to defend it, you will have to have 20,000 or 30,000, and maybe they can't
defend it.
Now, what we're trying to do-as Senator Goldwater says, where he agrees
with me and he disagrees with Governor Reagan-we're trying to protect the
economic and the military capability of that canal as long as it's necessary in
our national security.
RHODESIA
[2.] Q. Mr. President, if I am correct, Dr. Kissinger, in Africa, stated that
the Americans favor the position of the black nationalists in Rhodesia for gain-
ing control of the nation, or at least their numerical control of the government.
What would you do if the 15,000 Cuban troops stationed in Angola intervened
for the black nationalists in Rhodesia?
The President. First, let me say that the orders are—and Dr. Kissinger stated
them publicly while he was in Africa-that we would not use any military
force; we would not provide any weapons for any of the nations that might try
to put pressure on Rhodesia. That's a matter of firm, hard statement.
Now, the question as to if 15,000 Cubans went into Rhodesia. In the first
place, they have been warned that any adventurism by them will be met by
appropriate action by this country. We have diplomatic, we have economic, and
we have military options, and whatever they do, we will exercise the necessary
option to make sure that they are not successful.
Now, let me add one final point: The policy of this country is a policy that
led to the establishment of the United States. We, as Americans, became Amer-
ica because of self-determination. That's how we became the United States of
America. That's what we have traditionally believed in.
We have also believed in the absolute guarantee of minority rights in any
country, and furthermore, we, under no circumstances, believe that Cuba or
the Soviet Union or any outside country should have the authority, the power,
or the capability to interfere with internal affairs in Africa, period.
SOCIAL SECURITY PROGRAM
[3.] Q. Mr. President, do you plan to continue to lead our country to full
socialism, primarily through social security, with a guaranteed income and with
welfare? Where are we going to stop continued taxation for these programs and
let the individual plan for the portion of his own support for living, retirement,
and health care-come from him?
THE PRESIDENT. Sir, if you're asking me if I'm going to do away with social
1413
