July 1
[630]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
worldwide. Others impose new substantive restrictions reflecting new policies
or policies not heretofore expressed in law.
Most of the unacceptable features of the earlier bill have either been dropped
from H.R. 13680 or have been modified into an acceptable form. I am pleased
to note, for example, that this bill does not attempt to impose an arbitrary
and unwieldy annual ceiling on the aggregate value of Government and
commercial arms sales, a ceiling which would have served to hinder, rather than
foster, our efforts to seek multilateral restraints on the proliferation of conven-
tional weaponry, and which could have prevented us from meeting the legiti-
mate security needs of our allies and other friendly countries. In addition, the
provisions on discrimination and on human rights in this bill go far toward
recognizing that diplomatic efforts, rather than absolute statutory sanctions, are
the most effective way in which this country can seek further progress abroad
in these areas of deep concern to all Americans, and that the executive branch
must have adequate flexibility to make these efforts bear fruit.
I am especially pleased to note that with one exception the constitutionally
objectionable features of S. 2662, whereby authority conferred on the President
by law could be rescinded by the adoption of a concurrent resolution by the
Congress, have all been deleted from H.R. 13680.
The manifest incompatibility of such provisions with the express require-
ments of the Constitution that legislative measures having the force and effect
of law be presented to the President for approval and, if disapproved, be passed
by the requisite two-thirds majority of both Houses was perhaps the single most
serious defect of the previous bill and one which went well beyond security
assistance and foreign affairs in its implications. Moreover, such provisions would
have purported to involve the Congress in the performance of day-to-day execu-
tive functions in derogation of the principle of separation of powers, resulting
in the erosion of the fundamental constitutional distinction between the role
of the Congress in enacting legislation and the role of the executive in carrying
it out.
The one exception to this laudable action is the retention in H.R. 13680 of
the “legislative veto” provision regarding major governmental sales of military
equipment and services. This is not a new provision, but has been in the law
since 1974. To date, no concurrent resolution of disapproval under section 36(b)
has been adopted, and the constitutional question has not been raised directly.
Although I am accepting H.R. 13680 with this provision included, I reserve
my position on its constitutionality if the provision should ever become operative.
In my message of May 7, I expressed my serious concern that the termination
1937
