April 10
[325]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
U.S. POLICY TOWARD EASTERN EUROPE
[16.] Q. Mr. President, when Ronald Reagan was in Dallas earlier this week,
he reiterated his concerns about Eastern Europe. Last Friday, you reiterated
this country's support or responsiveness-I believe you said as responsibly as is
possible-to the aspirations for autonomy of Eastern Europe. How far would
your administration go in the event of an uprising such as in Hungary in the
fifties and Czechoslovakia in the sixties?
The President. The Helsinki agreement provided that we would support all
peaceful means of individuals or nations achieving their freedom. I don't believe
that the United States should say we are going to war if certain things happen
in Eastern Europe.
I think we ought to work with individuals and with countries to make sure
that their freedom and their independence is achieved and maintained. But to
say the United States would take military action under certain circumstances is
not the proper attitude for a President of the United States to take at a time when
we are at peace.
We ought to encourage individual and national freedom and independence.
But I don't think we should rattle our sabre. I think we ought to work within
the overall context, rather than to say we will do something in a military sense.
Q. Mr. Reagan is rattling his sabre?
'THE PRESIDENT. I wouldn't want to judge that. I can only speak authoritatively
about my own policies, which I have tried to, in response to your question.
TREATMENT AND REHABILITATION FOR DRUG ABUSERS
[17.] Q. Mr. President, in your speech last night you alluded to the progress
that has been made in treatment and rehabilitation of drug abusers and said
that you plan to step up those programs. In this city today, drug treatment
programs are operating in excess of their capacity, and in some cases even putting
addicts on waiting lists. Can you give us a more specific idea what improvements
in those programs you will propose, and when?
The President. Well, in the budget for fiscal year 1977, we increased the
amount of money for the treatment programs where the Federal Government
has a responsibility. On the basis of the recommendations that came to me from
the authorities in the executive branch, this money was increased. There will
be an added number of treatment opportunities.
If there is a need for specific help here in Dallas, either under the LEAA pro-
gram or any other Federal program, we will do our utmost to be helpful.
1073
