April 27
[373]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
player, I just wondered if you might tell us one of your outstanding moments
or the outstanding moment in your playing career?
THE PRESIDENT. Jack, those stories get better and better the longer you get away
from reality. [Laughter] The reason that happens is there are fewer and fewer
people who are around to tell the truth. [Laughter]
Well, I think probably the most exciting experience I had was playing 58
minutes in the Shrine East-West game for the crippled children's hospital in
San Francisco on January 1, 1935.
ILLEGAL ALIENS
[8.] Q. Mr. President, I would like to ask a question. I am very concerned
about the 8 million-plus estimated illegal aliens in this country and would like
to know what you propose to do about this question?
The President. I fully share your concern. We have anywhere from 6 to
8 million illegal aliens in the United States. In order to meet the problem, I
recommended in the budget that I submitted in January, after consulting with
the Attorney General, after consulting with the Immigration and Naturaliza-
tion Service, after consulting with the customs department, I recommended
that we increase the personnel in the law enforcement agencies for the purpose
of apprehending and deporting illegal aliens.
We have in past years apprehended a lot of them, but they are not kept
and actually deported. They go to the court or whatever agency they are called
before and they are not actually deported. They are detained for a limited period
of time. So, we're going to accentuate with more personnel and more money, the
actual apprehension, detention, and deportation. The emphasis is going to be on
deportation.
Q. Thank you, Mr. President. I want to say that the late Paul Bagwell would
have been really proud of your answer.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you. You knew Paul. He was a great guy.
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
[9.] Q. Mr. President, the environmentalists are causing our cities to spend
about a third more money than we really feel like we should spend. In our
little city, for instance, we get our water from a local lake and the environmental-
ists tell us now that we're going to have to put a sewer line around to catch the
water that comes from the filtration plant and put it into our sewer system
merely because they say we're polluting the streams, when all that's in this
water is filtration from the lake.
1241
