April 10
[333]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
forth with some solutions, not just be critical. And those are the kinds of ingre-
dients that I think are essential and vital for any President, whether it is Presi-
dent in 1976 or whether it is in the future or whether it has been the case in
the past.
BUCKLEY AMENDMENT
[12.] Q. Mr. President, would you support legislation that would repeal the
Buckley amendment, and do you think that this amendment has had an adverse
effect on the effectiveness of educators in making unbiased reports and recom-
mendations on students?
THE PRESIDENT. As I understand it, the Buckley amendment, which requires
the public disclosure of all school applicants as well as the school records of
students who are in colleges and universities, is that correct?
Q. Yes, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. I think the experience that has been held in the last 12 or 18
months since that went into effect would argue very affirmatively that there
ought to be modification in that legislation. I know that Senator Buckley, when
he offered the amendment and when it was passed by the Congress, did it with
the best of intentions.
But I think experience has proven that it went too far. It is inflexible, and
there ought to be some changes. And I hope that the Congress will do so.
FUNDING FOR MEDICAL RESEARCH
[13.] Q. Mr. President, I am sure that you are aware that scientists in our
country are working toward a cure for paralysis in spinal cord injuries, and
these men must have money for research. I would like to ask you if you plan to
support these men in every way so that thousands like me can get out of the
wheelchairs?
THE PRESIDENT. I know that the Veterans Administration asked for additional
funding and help and assistance to continue or to expand research in the areas
in which you have indicated. It is my best recollection that we recommended
an additional amount of money for the expansion of such research to try and
find some answers, not only answers in the United States but to work with other
scientists around the world.
I was told at the time we considered the budget that there were some excellent
programs in other countries, including the Soviet Union, in this particular field.
So, I can assure you that whatever funds the VA or the National Institutes of
Health or any other agency of the Federal Government can come up with a
1109
