April 23
[354]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
highly respected today than at any time. And it is a good relationship we have
throughout the world, both from the point of view of our allies on the one hand,
and our adversaries on the other.
So, when I look at the overall picture, I think the United States should be
proud of what has been done, and we should under no circumstances apologize
for it.
PANAMA CANAL NEGOTIATIONS
[9.] Q. Mr. President, Bob McConnell, WISH-TV, Indianapolis. Another
Republican candidate has alleged or suggested that the position taken by this
administration in respect to the Panama Canal is endangering our national
security. Would you comment on that, please?
THE PRESIDENT. I would be very happy to. [Laughter]
I have read my Republican opponent's comments, and if you read them as he
has said them himself, the net result is this Government should break off any
future negotiations, the current negotiations with Panama. I think that is wrong.
What we are trying to do is to make certain that we have the right to operate,
the right to maintain and to defend the Panama Canal during its usable economic
lifetime—a long period of time that would extend into the next century. And I
think that is in our national interest. And even after what we consider to be the
useful economic lifetime of the canal, if it continues to operate, it would be
operated for the total utilization of all parties.
But let me talk now for a minute about what breaking off negotiations means,
as my Republican opponent wants us to do.
Number one, you would undoubtedly have a recurrence of the bloodshed that
took place in 1964 and '65 when 20 Panamanians and 4 Americans were killed.
I don't know whether you saw the other day the news stories or films taken
during that bloodshed, those riots down there. Undoubtedly, you would have
that repeated not once, but many times.
Every Latin American country—about 25 of them are against us if we break
off negotiations. That means 309 million people in South America are against
us. I don't think that is the right course of action, to break off negotiations and
get the alienation of 309 million people in South America.
And number three, if we break off negotiations and riots begin, bloodshed is
repeated, we will have to send at least 10-20,000 more U.S. military personnel
down there to defend the canal.
Now, all of those bad things can be avoided as President Johnson decided, as
his successor decided and I decided by continuing negotiations. Now, if you
break off negotiations, you have to be willing to accept the things that I have
1167
