April 10
[327]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
sure you that before the action was taken that I had the advice of the legal au-
thorities who did advise me that such authority did exist, and based on their
legal interpretation of the basic laws, the temporary action was taken. I say I
cannot quote you the language, but those lawyers studied it and their advice to
me was that such authority did exist.
PRESIDENT'S ATTENDANCE AT FUTURE CONVENTIONS
[8.] Q. Mr. President, I'm Bob Skinner, executive vice president of the Iowa
Grain and Feed Association in Des Moines, Iowa. What can our association do
to get you to come to our convention in September? [Laughter] Our theme is,
"Vote for progress and prosperity."
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we've got both of them. [Laughter]
I was out at the Iowa State Farm meeting this summer and spoke at the State
Fair, so I have got a lot of friends in Iowa. But I am going to be out there again.
I don't know whether I can come to your convention or not, but I will be in
Iowa. Don't you worry, it is a great State.
Q. Thank you very much.
THE PRESIDENT. That is why I went to the State Farm in Des Moines last
summer.
FOOD STAMP PROGRAM AND HEALTH INSURANCE LEGISLATION
[9.] Q. Mr. President, I would like to know what we can expect in the fu-
ture on the food stamp program.
THE PRESIDENT. Let me just tell you some facts about the food stamp program,
how it has grown. It was started 7 or 8 years ago. The first year the cost was $2
to $3, $400 million. It will cost in this fiscal year $8 billion.
Now, last summer I recommended to the Congress legislation that would cut
that program in dollars by 1,600 million. At that time the Congress said, or a ma-
jority said, don't do anything to disturb it, and passed legislation to that effect.
They said, don't do anything until January 1, we will do something.
So, January 1 came and it went on for 2 or 3 weeks, and they didn't do any-
thing. So, I took the bit in my teeth and I submitted, through the Secretary of
Agriculture, regulations that would, in effect, carry out what I asked the Con-
gress to do which would result in 1.6 billion being saved.
The Senate finally, in the meantime, got a bill out of committee which was
much less rigid, or less strong, and far less saving than mine; and then it went
to the floor of the House and the Senate, and they made it worse, didn't they,
John? And finally, they passed this Mickey Mouse bill which really doesn't save
1087
