[625]
June 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
is what your Bicentennial means to the people of
Japan. Fecause of America, democracy is there for
many peoples and is a possible dream for the
rest of mankind.
Permit me in that spirit to offer a toast to the
future, to the continuing
Ford, to the depening
health : President
tr. ndstup between
the Japanese and Ameni an je ples, and to the
: trendom in the w di
the third
Century : the United States : America.
626
Statement Announcing Establishment of the Presidential
Committee on Urban Development and Neighborhood
Revitalization.
June 30, 1976
THE CITIES of this Nation and the neighborhoods which are their backbone
today face increasingly difficult problems of decay and decline.
Our society is one of constant change and movement. This fact has both its
positive and negative effects. The areas most likely to suffer from technological,
demographic, and social change are our older cities.
In recent years rapid changes in communications, manufacturing, technol-
ogy, transportation, and social expectation have combined to cause migration
from older cities to the suburbs and to expanding areas in the South and West.
These developments have produced severe strains on older cities, forcing city
governments to cope with the potentially devastating pressures of a stagnant or
declining economic base coupled with a growing need for services which are
becoming more and more expensive. For some time my administration has been
examining these problems, and I have proposed major program consolidations
in health, education, and social services.
Some 8 weeks ago I had the pleasure of meeting with representatives of many
ethnic organizations that have been holding periodic gatherings here at the
White House. In my remarks that day I asked those leaders if they would tell us
what they think needs to be done to bring new life and vitality to our urban
neighborhood. Their number one recommendation was that we should set up a
task force within the Government to review all major Federal programs that
have an impact upon urban and neighborhood life.
Today I am pleased to announce that I am appointing a Cabinet-level task
force to carry out that mission. This new Presidential Committee on Urban
Development and Neighborhood Revitalization will be chaired by the Secretary
of Housing and Urban Development, Carla Hills.
Yesterday afternoon I met with Secretary Hills and other members of the
committee and asked them to begin an immediate review of current Federal
I
1932
