[552]
June 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. I would say yes, I do, if what I understand he has said is his
personal viewpoint. I believe that the action that I took to send the Secretary of
State to southern Africa to settle those problems by negotiation is the responsible
thing to do, and that is why I did it. And any indication that a President might
send troops to southern Africa-American troops-I think is irresponsible.
Q. How does that differ from your statement in the campaign that you would
provide absolute guarantees to protect minority rights in Rhodesia ?
THE PRESIDENT. I think we can take care of that by negotiation.
Q. You weren't talking about sending troops when you were talking about
absolute guarantees?
THE PRESIDENT. That is correct.
Q. Is Mr. Reagan's rhetoric dangerous?
THE PRESIDENT. I would not want to comment on his rhetoric, I simply
wanted to indicate that my view was different from his.
Q. He said something about using American troops as a possible peacekeep-
ing force as they might be in the Middle East. How do you feel about that?
THE PRESIDENT. I haven't seen that comment by him, but I don't believe that
it is necessary to involve U.S. troops in southern Africa. I think we can ac-
complish the necessary solution to those problems by skillful diplomacy, and
that was the purpose of my sending the Secretary of State to southern Africa.
Q. Has there been any results of his mission there?
THE PRESIDENT. I think they have been very constructive.
REPORTER. Thank you, gentlemen.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:15 p.m. on the North Grounds at the White House.
553
Toasts of the President and King Juan Carlos of Spain at a
Dinner Honoring the President. June 3, 1976
Your Majesties, Your Excellencies, distinguished guests, friends of Spain and
the United States:
We thank you very much, Your Majesty, for your very kind words and your
thoughtfulness on behalf of Mrs. Ford and myself and the American people.
Mrs. Ford and I are deeply honored and very pleased to join you here in your
embassy this evening and to enjoy your gracious hospitality and the unique gifts
of the Spanish culinary art.
Spain contributed much, as we all know, to the building of our country and
1782
