May 24
[518]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
ballgames when we came from behind, and we are going to try very hard here
in the State of California.
I would be glad to answer any of your questions.
REPORTER. Mr. President, how critical is the California primary to you, sir?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, the California primary is a critical one, obviously.
Every one we have had—and I might add, I have entered every one and we
expect to do our very best in the final go-around, not only in California on
June 8 but in Ohio and New Jersey. They are, of course, very critical and very
crucial.
Q. Mr. President, you mentioned jobs, but in San Diego the situation hasn't
improved that much with the unemployment picture. What do you have to
offer us voters here in San Diego County?
THE PRESIDENT. Of course, the Navy shipbuilding program that I have ad-
vocated and that I have added to in the last month will have a beneficial impact
on the overall economy here in San Diego. I think also the overall improve-
ment of the economy is inevitably going to have a beneficial result here in
San Diego.
In the interim, of course, we will do the things that are needed and necessary
with our summer youth program, which I recommended, that we'll spend about
$528 million in 4 months this summer. Of course, a substantial part of that will
come to San Diego. So, San Diego, I'm sure, like the rest of the economy, will
come back and will be a healthy and prosperous area.
Q. Mr. President, when you talk about quality education are you speaking
about desegregated education?
THE PRESIDENT. I am talking first that quality education is our prime respon-
sibility. But, at the same time, we have to maintain the constitutional rights of
individuals that we should not have segregation. I think we can have both. If
we do the right thing, both with the courts on the one hand and the Congress
and the President on the other, we can achieve quality education without un-
dermining the constitutional rights of individuals to have desegregation.
Q. Mr. President, do you believe that you can come away from Kansas City
after the convention with the party united behind you?
THE PRESIDENT. I think so. I have tried to minimize any personal confronta-
tions. There are some basic differences between myself and my opponent, but
I don't think they will adversely affect the Republican base or the Republican
structure throughout the United States. I will certainly maximize my efforts to
heal any ruptures that might have occurred between now and Kansas City. And
1691
