[442]
May 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
Congress in both the House and the Senate, against wage and price controls.
I repeatedly said from the first day that I became President that I was totally,
unequivocally opposed to wage and price controls. I was then, I still am, and
I will continue to fight anybody who wants to impose them on this country.
They were wrong in the first place, they are wrong now.
Q. Mr. President, Mr. Thomas Kauper in the Department of Justice has testi-
fied and made speeches that are viewed by farmer cooperatives and farmers as
trying to weaken or destroy the farmers' bill of rights as set forth in Capper-
Volstead. Could you give us your position on Capper-Volstead?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, my best recollection is that I believe the legislation is
sound. I believe the legislation should not be tinkered with and, therefore, any
proposals to change it have not come to my desk and, therefore, since I believe
in it, I think it ought to stay where it is.
Q. Mr. President, I am a practicing veterinarian. The Nebraska Veterinary
Medical Association members present this evening thank you for the invita-
tion to be present at this forum.
It is estimated that the Nebraska livestock industry lost $180 million due to
livestock disease in 1975. The profession is in complete accord that we have
effective and safe pharmaceuticals and biologics. However, the last few years,
the profession has lost a great number of effective and needed pharmaceuticals
because of Food and Drug Administration regulations. Likewise, the profession
has lost the use of a great number of effective and needed biologics because of
USDA efficacy and safety standards that are too stringent.
Sir, is there some possible way in which the practicing veterinarian can
have a hand in the decisionmaking and product development of pharmaceuti-
cals and biologics that are badly needed today and to help in curtailing our
livestock losses?
THE PRESIDENT. I see no reason why there can't be an input from the vet-
erinarian profession. But I think it's also accurate to say that in many cases-
and I believe it would be true in this case-that the kind of legislation that has
been written is so rigid and so lacking in flexibility that the Department itself
is almost hamstrung in what it can do or what it can decide.
I know that's true in some of the areas where EPA has been faced with the
problem of certain pesticides. The legislation in that case, I know categorically,
is so tightly drawn that there is absolutely a minimum limit of flexibility as
far as EPA is concerned.
And this is what happens very often-I don't say in every case and maybe
in the case that you cite there is more flexibility-but the tendency has been, for
1496
