June 11
[589]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Let me conclude with this observation. This country is on the brink of its
third 100th year. In our third century in America, I think we ought to emphasize
the freedom of the individual. In our first 100 years in America, we developed
a form of government that protected that precious freedom which we enjoy.
In our second century of America, we developed the greatest economic industrial
machine in the history of mankind. But our third century must be the century
for the protection of the individual. We must protect that individual against
mass government, against mass labor, against mass business, mass education.
The third century of this country must be the one where the individual has
a new birth of freedom. And in the first 4 years under the Ford administration,
guarantee you we will get a kickoff in the right direction.
I
Tomorrow, every one of the 1,400-plus delegates here has a great responsibility.
And that responsibility reminds me of the responsibility that 59 delegates to
the Constitutional Convention in Independence Hall, in the city of Philadelphia
about 200 years ago, had. They had a responsibility—representing 13 small,
struggling colonies, about 3 million people. They labored from May until
September. And when they concluded that responsibility of drafting the greatest
document in the history of mankind for the governing of people and a nation—
after they had all signed—Benjamin Franklin, one of those delegates, wandered
down onto the street, and he was accosted by an old lady. And that lady said to
Ben Franklin, “Mr. Franklin, what have you given us, a monarchy or a
republic?” And Ben Franklin said, “We have given you a republic, if you can
keep it.”
All of you here in Springfield tomorrow have an awesome responsibility.
To a very high degree, you have the same responsibility, whether you can keep
or help to keep the Republic. I have faith and trust in you.
We are going to win in Kansas City, and we are going to win in November.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:32 p.m. at a recep-
tion in the Exhibition Hall at the Howard John-
son's Motor Lodge. In his opening remarks, he
referred to Governor Christopher S. (Kit) Bond
of Missouri, Senators John G. Tower of Texas,
Howard H. Baker, Jr., of Tennessee, and Robert
Dole of Kansas, William C. Phelps, lieutenant
governor of Missouri, John C. Danforth, attorney
general of Missouri, Lowell McCluskey, Missouri
State Republican chairman, Gene McNary, Missouri
State chairman for the Elect Ford Committee, and
Rogers C. B. Morton, campaign manager for the
President Ford Committee.
1871
