[417]
May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
within a relatively short period of time recommend to the Congress some re-
adjustment in these overall formulas which have to be updated, I think, on the
basis of equity for the years ahead.
Q. Mr. President, I am sorry but we have time for only one more question.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, sir.
Q. Mr. President, my name is Charles Cosby. I'm a city councilman from
Madison, Indiana, and we have a Government installation near our city, the
Jefferson Proving Ground, and this installation is engaged in testing powder and
equipment, Army-type equipment, and it's pretty much self-supporting.
I understand that they get paid for most of their work that they do and they
have very little Army personnel. Most of it is civilian personnel, and it is a great
asset to the community as far as income and so forth. There is a proposed rumor
that this place is to be closed. I would like your comment on what you think
about closing these types of installations?
THE PRESIDENT. It is my understanding, if my recollection is accurate, that at
the present time there are roughly 4,200 people employed there. It is my under-
standing that the Department of Defense is not undertaking an examination
as to the closing but as to a reduction from around 4,200 to 3,600. And no final
decision has been made because under the guidelines that were established by
the new Secretary of Defense, whenever there is a major modification or in some
cases a closure of a military facility, there first has to be an economic impact
statement, and number two there has to be a public opportunity to see whether
on a military basis that facility ought to be reduced or terminated.
That process will take anywhere from 6 months to a year. There will be am-
ple opportunity for people who differ with it to come in and present their case
on either the impact statement or the other statement.
Now, without saying this is going to happen—and I am not saying it is going
to happen because I am not going to interfere in that process-but let's be real-
istic about it. We had a military establishment of 3,600,000 men on active duty
during the Vietnam war. The war is over. Today we have 2,100,000 military
personnel. We have cut back about 1,500,000 in active duty military personnel.
So, you cannot have the same base operation with 2.1 million as you can when
you had 3.5 million or 3.6 million. You just can't do it, and particularly if you
are not using ammunition today as you did in 1965 to 1972.
So, there has to be some contraction someplace, and from the point of view
of efficient operation, as you contract the size of your military, you have to take
a look at your base operations.
Number two, I think it is well to point out that from 10 years ago until this
1432
