[615]
June 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
of the United States. There must be no misunderstanding about this: I will up-
hold the Constitutional rights of every individual in the country. I will carry out
the decisions of the Supreme Court. I will not tolerate defiance of the law.
Third, I am totally dedicated to quality education in America-and to the
principle that public education is predominantly the concern of the community
in which people live. Throughout the history of our Nation, the education of
our children, especially at the elementary and secondary levels, has been a com-
munity endeavor. The concept of public education is now written into our history
as deeply as any tenet of American belief.
In recent years, we have seen many communities in the country lose control
of their public schools to the Federal courts because they failed to voluntarily
correct the effects of willful and official denial of the rights of some children
in their schools.
It is my belief that in their earnest desire to carry out the decisions of the Su-
preme Court, some judges of lower Federal Courts have gone too far. They have:
-resorted too quickly to the remedy of massive busing of public school
children;
-extended busing too broadly; and
-maintained control of schools for too long.
It is this overextension of court control that has transformed a simple judicial
tool, busing, into a cause of widespread controversy and slowed our progress
toward the total elimination of segregation.
As a President is responsible for acting to enforce the Nation's laws, so is he
also responsible for acting when society begins to question the end results of
those laws.
I therefore ask the Congress, as the elected representatives of the American
people, to join with me in establishing guidelines for the lower Federal Courts
in the desegregation of public schools throughout the land-acting within the
framework of the Constitution and particularly the Fourteenth Amendment to
the Constitution.
It is both appropriate and Constitutional for the Congress to define by law
the remedies the lower Federal Courts may decree.
It is both appropriate and Constitutional for the Congress to prescribe stand-
ards and procedures for accommodating competing interests and rights.
Both the advocates of more busing and the advocates of less busing feel they
hold a strong moral position on this issue.
To many Americans who have been in the long struggle for civil rights, busing
1910
