April 28
[378]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
I am convinced that the American people would rather have a President who
is constructively seeking to build the foundations of a lasting security than
someone who spends most of his time trying to kick them down. It is irrespon-
sible and a disservice to the American people to lead them to believe that we are
inferior when we are not, that our military strength is insufficient when it is not,
or that there are pat answers and simple solutions to the complex issues of na-
tional security when there are none.
This country must have a President who can do more than scratch the sur-
face of complicated problems. It's not enough to ask questions; it's not enough
to offer criticism. It is the obligation of every candidate for the Presidency of
the United States to offer alternatives, to deal in specifics, to provide some an-
swers to the questions that he raises.
If a candidate fails in that responsibility, he has failed to satisfy the most
fundamental requirement of a political campaign and of political leadership
in this country—he has failed to level with the American people. You must
demand more than that of Presidential candidates. The elections of 1976 are
much too important for you to make your decisions on the basis of less than
complete knowledge.
My record is clear. I have served as your President for more than 21 months,
and during that period I have recommended the two largest military budgets
in our Nation's history. They were needed to see that our military capabilities
continue to be strong in the years ahead, as they must be if we are to find the
peace and security we all seek.
A budget must also be based on facts and hard reality. One fact is that in
recent years the Soviet Union has been spending more and more money for
armaments, while successive American military budgets have been cut back by
the Congress. It is a trend that cannot, must not, and will not continue. My
budget for fiscal year 1977 both reverses this trend and makes sure, makes posi-
tive that our American fighting forces will continue to be unsurpassed by any
nation on the globe.
It is a fact—and in this real world a very comforting fact-today America is
a nation at peace, a nation with new confidence in itself and in its future, a
nation that stands tall and strong and free as it enters its third century. If this
is your idea of what America should be, I respectfully ask for your support this
Saturday, next November, and in the challenging years ahead.
Thank you very much.
I am delighted now to answer any of the questions.
1255
