June 22
[610]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
in Washington, under requirements mainly imposed by the Congress, have
taken over many, many of the activities that once were left to the State and local
units of government. We see it in the past records of some Government agencies
that exceeded their authority and spied upon and otherwise violated the rights
of individual American citizens. And we see it in the way that a few of our courts
have wandered so far into the school busing controversy that they are practically
running our local school boards.
The time has come to roll back the wave of big government in America. And
we must never forget, a government big enough to give us everything we want
is a government big enough to take from us everything we have.
We must bring order and restraint to the Federal regulatory process through
sweeping reforms in airline transportation, in trucking, and in many other areas.
In order to restore greater powers to local and State governments, to put deci-
sions back where they belong, we must reenact general revenue sharing and
collapse complicated education and health programs into new block grants.
So that the rights of our citizens may be protected while the essential intelli-
gence functions of our Government continue, we are undertaking reforms in the
intelligence community, and we are putting into place new constructive guide-
lines for the FBI.
In the next few days I plan to announce action in still another area-court-
ordered, forced busing. There is no good reason why we cannot wipe out the
vestiges of discrimination in America, achieve quality education for our chil-
dren, and at the same time minimize the massive busing of our children.
Underlying actions in each of these areas is our fervent belief that individual
liberty in this great country means liberty from oppressive, heavy-handed,
bureaucratic government. That is a goal we can achieve; that is a goal we must
achieve in our third century. I firmly believe that Americans can do anything
if other Americans do not tie us down with redtape, tie us up with pessimism, or
tie us into a knot of frustration and stagnation.
Let me reemphasize that my vision of the future means equal opportunity and
equal rights for all of our citizens. The principle of racial equality is indelibly
written into our Constitution and into our hearts, and in all that we do we must
honor it.
Earlier in this century, the novelist Thomas Wolfe spoke about America in a
way that is worth remembering. He said, “To every man his chance, to every
man regardless of his birth his shining golden opportunity, to every man the
right to live, to work, to be himself and to become whatever things his manhood
1901
