June 15
[595]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
What is required of us all, if we are to lead successfully, is a strong moral
foundation. We cannot stand very long on the shifting sands of situation ethics.
History proves that power and prestige are slippery peaks from which the
mighty have often fallen into disgrace. Jesus said, “[For] what has a man
profited, if he shall gain the whole world, and lose his own soul?”
We stand in danger today of losing the soul of America to the seductions
of material gain and moral apathy, to a new code of conduct which reviles the
basic truths and mocks the basic beliefs on which this Nation and much of
religion were founded. Forgiving hearts and tolerant attitudes are among the
greatest lessons of Christian teaching, but at some point we must take a stand
and say, “This is right, this is wrong; there is a difference."
In this Bicentennial Year we celebrate our independence from a foreign
power, but we reaffirm our dependence upon a higher power. We recognize,
just as George Washington did in his first inaugural address, that no nation
on Earth can owe more to providence than the United States of America. Our
greatness is because of our goodness. Should we cease to be good, we would soon
cease to be great.
Public officials have a special responsibility to set a good example for others
to follow-in both their private and public conduct. The American people,
particularly our young people, cannot be expected to take pride or even to
participate in a system of government that is defiled and dishonored, whether
in the White House or in the halls of Congress. Jesus said, “[For] unto
whomsoever much is given, of him shall be much required.” Personal integrity
is not too much to ask of public servants. We should accept nothing less.
The American people have seen too much abuse of the moral imperatives
of honesty and of decency upon which religion and government and civilized
society must rest. To remedy these abuses, we must look not only to the
government but, more importantly, to the Bible, the church, the human heart.
We must look to the family for the instruction in righteousness and for the
stabilizing influence so important in a complex, confusing, and ever-changing
world. We must look to the faith of our fathers. The laws of God were of very
special importance to our Founding Fathers and to the Nation they created.
The early history of our country was written by men who valued the freedom
of religion and who had in common a deep faith in God. I believe it is no accident
of history, no coincidence that this Nation, which declared its dependence on
God even while declaring its independence from foreign domination, has
become the most richly blessed nation in the history of mankind and the world.
1879
