1442]
May 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
more than I want to give. But he wants $200,000, and I am not going to fight
him very hard.
But the point is we ought to get some action and we, from the White House,
are working on the House Committee on Ways and Means. I don't want to
promise you categorically, because the Congress has been less than cooperative
in a number of cases this year. And so all I can say is that I am committed,
and we are doing everything we possibly can and we will continue to do it.
Q. Mr. President, I am State president of the Nebraska Feeder's Auxiliary. In
the interest of consumers and livestock feeders as well, is anything being accom-
plished to implement the same rigid inspection and grading standards on im-
ported beef as our U.S. products are subject to, and will it be labeled as imported?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, this is a matter that is being considered in the Congress
and being studied in the executive branch. It sounds very simplistic and very
casy. If we get too tough and too rigid, it could have a reverse impact on what
we want to sell abroad-grain, wheat, soybeans, et cetera. It has to be a two-way
street, and we expect them to keep the level up to a reasonable safety standard,
absolutely.
But, if we are going to put punitive levels on it, it will be counterproductive,
because they will retaliate, close our markets to our other agricultural commodi-
ties. So, it's my feeling we ought to be absolutely certain that they meet our
sanitary and safety standards, period. But we shouldn't try to take punitive
action, because it could be very, very counterproductive as we try to expand our
markets for wheat and corn and soybeans and the other great American agri-
cultural commodities.
Q. Can we have it labeled as imported?
The President. I see no reason why it cannot be labeled, none whatsoever.
Q. That is very helpful. Thank you, Mr. President.
Q. Mr. President, I am a veterinarian. My question relates to education. We
have about 30,000 veterinarians in the United States. Less than 2,000 graduate
each year. My question is this: We are interested in the administration's intent
toward continued support of professional education.
THE PRESIDENT. As I recall, about 6 to 7 years ago, there was a program initi-
ated to try and help expand our veterinarian schools all over the country. I was
quite familiar with it at that time because of the interest of Michigan State Uni-
versity, where they have an outstanding veterinarian school. I must be very
honest and frank with you, I cannot give you the details on what the status is.
I don't believe in kidding people. So, we can find out what it is, and we will let
you know, but I don't want to give you a wrong answer. It's just one that I can't
!
1502
