[478]
May 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
Brock, Jimmy Quillen, Robin Beard. That is what we can do if we have the
support of all of you, not only for me but for the good Members of the House
and Senate who believe as you do and believe as I do.
I learned a very basic truth when I first came to the Congress, and let me give
it to you, because I think it wraps everything into proper perspective: A
government big enough to give us everything we want is a government big
enough to take from us everything we have.
But I also know that as a nation our best hope for a continued peace is to
remain strong, and that way we can and we will preserve the peace. Throughout
my 27 years of public service in the Congress and in the White House, my
record is one of total commitment to a national defense equal to any challenge
and a policy of peace through strength.
For 10 long years, the Congress has hacked away at the defense budget,
cutting some $50 billion in this one period—a decade. Last year, this Congress
cut almost $7 billion from the very first defense budget that I submitted as your
President.
This year, in January, I decided that we were going to meet head-on the
challenge of the Congress, and we were not going to let them undercut our
national defense security and our military capability. So, I submitted a budget
that would keep our Army, Navy, Air Force, Marines strong and capable of
carrying out any of the missions assigned to them. And I am glad to report
that the Congress this year is getting the word and is giving to us-to me, as
President, and to you, the American people—the kind of funding that is required
so that our men, whether they are airmen, sailors, marines, or soldiers, will
have the equipment, the training, and the leadership to keep America able,
totally committed to the defense of this great country.
Because we are at peace and because I think we must stay there, I am totally
dedicated to maintain that peace that we now enjoy and to make certain that
the legacy of peace continues for our children and for the generations to come.
With our Nation at peace, I am continuing the task that I undertook the
the day that I became your President, which is the restoration of confidence
and trust in our institutions, in ourselves, and in America's future.
The record of my first 2 years in the White House is peace, prosperity,
performance in office, and trust. It is a record that I am proud of. It's a record
that gives me the opportunity to ask you in good conscience, give me a mandate
to keep peace, prosperity, restoration of confidence and trust in America.
The course that we take in the next 4 years will shape America's future. It's
a course that must be piloted by a person who has got a steady hand, background
1580
