[417]
May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
State and local units of government can count on in your situation, shouldn't
be varied predicated on the deficit or the surplus of the Federal Government.
We can solve our Federal Government deficit without injuring or taking
away general revenue sharing. We are in the process right now, if Congress will
go along with my budget recommendations, of not only slightly expanding gen-
eral revenue sharing but we will also achieve a balanced budget. So, I think the
two programs, one a balanced budget, which we are going to get under my
administration, and general revenue sharing can go down the same road at
the same time.
Q. I'm Peggy Smith from Carmel, which is one of the fastest growing com-
munities in the country, and we are now in the process of having our third
special census in 3 years. I was wondering what the chances are of having the
allocation recognize special census figures?
THE PRESIDENT. On the basis of equity, I would think it ought to. I am some-
what surprised, to be frank, that those special census figures are not incorporated
in the annual allocations of general revenue sharing.
May I ask you, if you have a special authorized, special census and it does indi-
cate that you have expanded significantly in population in the next year, are
not those new census figures incorporated in the funds that are made available?
Q. No, they recognize part of it but not the total.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, as I said, I think there is equity in your position. I will
have somebody on my staff, and I will personally take a look and see what that
situation is.
It is my judgment that there ought to be recognition where you have an
authorized special census taken and those figures indicate a significant increase
in population. It seems to me there ought to be some consideration given to it
in the next year's allocation of revenue sharing.
Q. What would you suggest I do to follow up on it?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I will follow up on it. But I would suggest that in the
consideration of the legislation by the House as well as the Senate, certainly
you could go to your Senators or your Congressmen and point that problem
out. If it is true in Carmel-Carmel, Indiana-it undoubtedly is true in many
other communities throughout the country. And it seems to me that in the
legislative process some recognition could be given to that particular problem.
Q. Mr. President, my name is Reginald Jones. I'm the director of the Indian-
apolis Skill Center. I would like to know, based upon CETA and funds coming
through CETA, the fiscal year money has already been determined, how much
1428
