[476]
May 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
And if the Congress keeps sending me budget-busting bills down to the Oval
Office in the White House, I will use my veto again and again and again. I will
not be satisfied until we balance the Federal budget, and the sooner the better.
My plan is to combine spending cuts with tax cuts and to reduce the growth
of Government across the board.
We cut your taxes last year, and that led to a major increase in consumer
spending, and that increase was a very major factor in our economic recovery.
Last January, I asked the Congress for another tax cut of $10 billion starting
July 1 of this year. But instead, it looks like the majority in the Congress wants
to spend $17 billion more than I proposed, eliminating the tax cut, and in-
creasing the national debt to $713 billion. That's the wrong program, and we've
got to fight for my program.
And may I mention, among the tax cuts that I recommended to the Congress
was an increase in the personal exemption from $750 to $1,000, and I can't
understand why the Congress or a majority of them don't understand that the
people in the middle-income area need that tax cut.
With the new budget that I proposed, we could cut the rate of growth in
Federal spending by 50 percent and we can achieve a balanced budget by 1979.
Now, if we can get a few more Howard Bakers, Bill Brocks, Jimmy Quillens,
John Duncans, Robin Beards in the Congress of the United States, we can cut
government spending, we can balance the budget, and we can win the battle.
And I hope you will help us across the board.
The sound of real battle is only faintly heard in the world today after so
many, many years of war. The United States can be proud of the role it has
played in bringing peace to the world and in promoting the cause of freedom,
of human dignity throughout this globe. We can play that role successfully
because we are strong enough to command the confidence of our allies and
the respect of our adversaries.
After years and years of lower and lower defense budgets imposed by the
Congress, we have reversed that dangerous trend. I have proposed in the last
2 years-January of 1975, January of 1976-the two largest defense budgets
in American history. And I hope that we finally convinced a majority in the
Congress that it can't shortchange our national defense any longer. And we're
going to win that battle against that Congress like we're winning the battle
in the economy and for peace throughout the world.
The purpose of America's mighty arsenal is not to terrify the weak, to provoke
armed confrontation, or to lay claim to that which is not ours. Our purpose is
1574
