April 29
[394]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Let me refresh your memory, if you will-boy, I can remember it-back in
August of 1974. There was a great apprehension in this country following a
very tragic and unfortunate situation. People were lacking in confidence in
their government in many respects. Around the world, our allies were appre-
hensive about future U.S. leadership. Our adversaries, on a global basis, were
uncertain as to what they should do or what they could do. And at home we
were faced, as all of you know, with roaring inflation at a rate of 12 to 14 percent,
and we were right on the brink of the worst economic recession in 40 years. And
then, of course, almost instantaneously, we had unemployment soaring and
employment plummeting.
It took the best advice I could get and the strongest action that I could under-
take to set this country on the right course domestically. And I think when you
look at what has happened and transpired, with inflation down from over 12
percent to less than 3 percent for the first 3 months of this year, a 75-percent re-
duction in the rate of inflation, and where you see employment going up and
unemployment going down, I think this administration can claim some credit
and deserves a chance to give this great country the same kind of policies in
the years ahead for the next 4 years.
Now, let me take just a minute, if I might, to talk about where I think we
are as a country with our military capability and our foreign policy. There has
been some criticism and, fortunately, in this country we can disagree without
being disagreeable. We can have very sharp differences. I can have one judg-
ment; somebody else can have the other.
But when you're talking about national defense policy-if I could take a
minute or two to give you some credentials that I think are important, that I
happen to have—in the 25 years that I served in the Congress, 14 of those
years I was on what we call the Defense Subcommittee on Appropriations,
which was a committee that from January to June or July spent 5 hours a day,
5 days a week interviewing, interrogating, investigating Secretaries of Defense,
Chairmen of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, admirals, and generals.
They used to come and go like Greyhound buses before the committees. In a
period of 14 years, I had some experience in U.S. defense policy, U.S. defense
programs, the procurement of weapons systems, what we were doing at home,
and what we were doing abroad.
And let me say that in my judgment, with the experience and with the ad-
vice and counsel of the Secretary of Defense and the current Joint Chiefs of
Staff, the budget that I submitted to the Congress this year-a 14-percent
increase over last year, the biggest defense budget in the history of the United
1337
