[657]
July 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
FATHER-SON/MOTHER-DAUGHTER EVENTS
[15.] Q. Mr. President, in light of your expressed displeasure over the
decision by HEW regarding father-son/mother-daughter breakfasts, have you
given any thought to perhaps curtailing the powers of the Office for Civil
Rights in that Department?
THE PRESIDENT. We haven't given any thought to the curtailing of their
overall responsibility. But as President I have a responsibility to review any
decisions that they make, and when I saw that decision I was shocked-I go
a little stronger than Ron reported yesterday—and I took immediate action
because I think that was a very wrong decision. And if there are other decisions
that I disagree with in the future, I will exercise my Presidential prerogative to
suspend them or to change them. They have a responsibility to carry out what
they think is the right determination, but if I disagree, I will certainly take
affirmative action in the future, as I did in this case.
WHOLESALE PRICE INDEX STATISTICS
[16.] Q. Your reaction to the WPI figures, sir?
THE PRESIDENT. I think those WPI figures of .4 percent fall within the guide-
lines that we have established. If you annualize that figure, it is less than 5
percent, so it's within the overall expectations that we have for wholesale prices.
REPUBLICAN VICE-PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE
[17.] Q. Mr. President, after you have, through this campaign, made some
rather harsh observations about Ronald Reagan, how could you seriously con-
sider him as your running mate, a man who could become the President? You
have had some pretty tough things to say about him. I can't quite see how you
could possibly consider him, if you feel that way.
THE PRESIDENT. I think we all have to understand in a very controversial
political campaign you make a point, and sometimes with some political license.
We have done that historically in this country. We can go back to the days of
President Kennedy and the then Vice President Johnson. No one under any
circumstances would have foreseen that that team would end up representing
the Democratic Party.
All I am saying is that when you take a look at all of the Republican potentials,
including Ronald Reagan, I think they all ought to be included for consideration.
Q. But would it be fair to say that you certainly wouldn't be as comfortable
with Ronald Reagan as some others?
THE PRESIDENT. Phil | Phil Jones, CBS News], I am not going to get into de-
1994
