July 1
[631]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
The story of powered flight is an American saga. The wonder is that it has all
happened within the lifetime and the memory of living Americans. How many
of us remember vividly the thrill of the first take-off? How many recall the first
news of Lindbergh's safe landing in Paris? How many saw man's first giant step
that planted the American flag on the Moon?
At this moment an unmanned Viking spacecraft is circling the planet Mars. It
has only been 80 years since the Smithsonian's Samuel Langley launched his
unmanned “aerodrome” for a half-mile flight before it plunged into the Potomac.
The amazing American achievements in air and space tell us something eve
more important about ourselves on Earth. The hallmark of the American adven-
ture has been a willingness—even an eagerness—to reach for the unknown.
For three and a half centuries, Americans and their ancestors have been ex-
plorers and inventors, pilgrims and pioneers, always searching for something
new-across the oceans, across the continent, across the solar system, across the
frontiers of science, beyond the boundaries of the human mind.
Confined within these walls and windows are the products of American men
and women whose imagination and determination could not be confined. There
is nothing more American than saying, “If you don't succeed, try, try again.”
Nor could Americans be confined to the Atlantic seaboard. The wide open
spaces have lured Americans from our beginnings. The frontier shaped and
molded our society and our people.
Gertrude Stein once wrote, "In the United States there is more space where
nobody is than where anybody is." This is what makes America what it is. In-
deed, the impact of the unknown, of what was dimly perceived to be "out there,”
has left a permanent mark on the American character.
In the early 17th century, a few fragile vessels-like the Discovery in 1607 and
the Mayflower in 1620-sailed across 3,000 miles of unfriendly sea. Their passen-
gers and crew knew far less about their destination than the American astro-
nauts knew at lift-off about the lunar landscape, a quarter million miles away.
The pilgrims feared the perils of the voyage and the misery of the unfamiliar
land. But the sentiments that sustained them were recorded by Governor Wil-
liam Bradford “. . . that all great and honorable actions are accompanied with
great difficulties, and must be both enterprised and overcome with answerable
courage. . . ." Behind them lay the mighty ocean, separating them from the
world they knew, and before them lay an untamed wilderness.
Three and a half centuries later, that wilderness has been transformed. A
continent once remote and isolated now supports a mighty nation, a nation built
1939
