[610]
June 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
and his vision can combine to make him. This," he said, "is the promise of Amer-
ica." That is the promise we seek to fulfill in the next 100 years.
We must also recognize, as George Washington did in his first inaugural
address, that no nation on Earth owes more to providence than does the United
States of America. Our greatness is because of our goodness. Should we cease to
be good, we would soon cease to be great. Americans have seen too much abuse
of the moral imperatives of honesty and decency, the foundations of our civilized
society.
Americans, especially our young people, can take little pride in the system
that is dishonored by misconduct, whether in the White House or in the halls
of Congress. The essential task of leadership in business, in education, in
family life, and in public life is to inspire, to teach, to act with courage, to live
with honor, and to show the way. Personal integrity must not be a part of
nostalgia; it must be the living and lived essence of the American character.
There are many freedoms that we must secure, that we must expand in the
United States, but let me mention only one other-freedom from war. On too
many occasions since the Jaycees were founded, America has sent her finest
sons to the battlefields in faraway lands. The first and foremost objective of
every President is to protect and preserve the security of the United States.
Today that security is fully protected. Our armaments are unsurpassed; our
alliances with Europe and Japan have never been healthier; our will in America
is strong. Yet we must also recognize that we live in a world that is increasingly
hostile to freedom. Only one nation in six in the world today is free and
democratic. There are many, many nations that oppose our interests and our
beliefs and our dedication to freedom and to liberty.
Through negotiations and constructive diplomacy, we are seeking to reduce
the level of tensions with the Soviet Union. We share with them an interest in
preventing a nuclear incineration, but we have no illusions that they have
changed their political objectives or their essential world outlook. It is, therefore,
incumbent upon us to maintain a strong, balanced military posture. Military
strength is the best insurance for peace. We have that peace, and we are going
to keep it.
One of my greatest frustrations as a Congressman-and I think Mayor Bill
Hudnut can vividly recall it, because he served in the Congress with me-but
that frustration was to join with the occupant of the White House, Democrat
or Republican, in the fight for large defense budgets and then to see those
budgets unmercifully cut by a congressional majority on the other side. In
1902
