June 22
[610]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
will follow will carry forward this same determination, this same patriotism,
this same love of liberty in the years ahead. And if you don't, who will?
As an active member of this organization just a few years ago—[laughter]—I
remember then that I often asked myself, what sort of a future did I want
for my family and for my country? Many of you here today may ask yourselves
the same questions: What do we want for ourselves over the next 20 or 30
years? What do we really want for America's third century as a nation?
Let me respond to some of those questions for just a few moments by suggest-
ing some of my own answers. From my readings of history, I am persuaded
that America's first two centuries can be split roughtly in half.
The hallmark of our first century was the establishment of a free, democratic
government in our land. Rising up from a weak, fledgling nation, our people
sprawled across the continent, territories were acquired, States were formed,
wars were fought—none more devastating than the one that turned American
against American. But the Union survived that terrible ordeal, and by 1876,
at the end of our first century, a responsive and responsible form of government
was firmly implanted in our soil.
Our second century as a nation, I would suggest, has been marked by the
growth and the development of a great industrial system. The pioneer spirit
of the early days began to conquer new frontiers, spanning the Nation with rails,
transforming our manufacturing and marketing, recasting our cities with con-
crete and steel, revolutionizing our science and technology so that at this very
moment an American spacecraft, for the first time in man's history, is preparing
to land on the planet of Mars.
These have been great achievements: the triumph of free government in our
first century; the triumph of free enterprise in our second.
Now, in our third century I propose that we climb an even higher mountain.
Let us fulfill the dreams of the early fathers. Let us make these new 100 years
the ultimate triumph of people, the triumph of individual freedom in the United
States of America.
We made enormous progress in securing and expanding individual freedoms
in the past 200 years, and much of that progress has come in our own lifetimes.
But we have not finished the job. Full individual freedom in America must
mean freedom from want. America has the compassion and the resources to
meet this challenge.
So long as our nation is burdened with heavy inflation and heavy unemploy-
ment, we shall not be free. Over the past 15 years, due in large measures to
stop-and-start economic policies in Washington, the United States economy
1899
