May 19
[497]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
497
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session With Reporters
Following Michigan and Maryland Primary Election Results.
May 19, 1976
OBVIOUSLY, it's a great pleasure to have a chance to talk with you on this
Wednesday. I say this very emphatically: I don't think Betty and I had a more
enjoyable evening than last evening since we've been in the White House. It's
wonderful, of course, to get good results in any political campaign. But when
you get such an overwhelming and unbelievable vote in your own area—and I
mean in this case the old congressional district that I had the honor of repre-
senting—I think it went 85 percent—and then, of course, added to the excellent
endorsement in the State of Michigan as a whole, plus the very fine vote in
Maryland, the whole evening was really a very enjoyable one.
And I do want to thank the many, many thousands of people in Michigan
who I know made an extra effort, from Governor Milliken on down. There was
a total unanimity of determination and spirit and cooperation. And we had,
likewise, the same effort in the State of Maryland.
So, yesterday was a great day, and I think it has restored the momentum that
is needed for the remaining 12 primaries and the various convention States—
conventions that will be held between now and the convention in Kansas City.
The momentum has started, we are going to work at keeping it going, and we
are optimistic for a good victory in Kansas City.
QUESTIONS
REPORTER. Mr. President, how many of the six primary States Tuesday do
you think you will win?
THE PRESIDENT. We haven't made any analysis as to the six as a whole, or in-
dividually. Our best judgment is we will come out reasonably well when you
total the six up altogether.
Q. Mr. President, you are expecting to win in Kansas City, but how do you
expect to do in California?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we're going out to California, as you know, this week.
We think we have a fighting chance in the State of California. We're going to
make a big effort there. I can't tell you just how we stand. We have some surveys
1629
