[585]
June 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
We have an occasional poll that shows a dip here or a dip there, but if you take
the consensus of the polls, I think it proves beyond any doubt that I am electable.
Q. How do you see your chances running against Carter ?
THE PRESIDENT. I think they are good.
Q. Mr. President, Melvin Laird said today that he thinks you've got the
nomination in the bag. Do you think it's going to be that easy? And what do
your advisers tell you about that?
THE PRESIDENT. I will just say we are going to win on the first ballot. I am
delighted that my good friend, Mel, is that optimistic. But I always prepare
for the worst, and the best will take care of itself. And winning by 1,131 is
good, but I would like to win by more than that on the first ballot.
Q. How closely will you monitor the activities of trying to firm up delegates
between now and the convention?
THE PRESIDENT. I think I will be kept up to date on just what the progress
is. That is important, and I am very interested in it, obviously.
Q. Any personal contact between you and the uncommitted delegates?
THE PRESIDENT. We haven't decided yet, Ann [Ann Compton, ABC News].
REPORTER. Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Nice to see you all.
NOTE: The exchange began at 4:05 p.m. in the Rose Garden at the White House.
586
Statement Following House Action on Legislation To Extend
the General Revenue Sharing Program. June 10, 1976
I AM extremely pleased that the House of Representatives has finally passed a
bill to extend the general revenue sharing program. While the bill which passed
the House does not contain many of my proposals for renewal of this critical
domestic program, it does preserve the revenue sharing concept and incorporates
certain changes I have proposed. I am hopeful that the Senate will proceed to
consider this legislation quickly and will examine my recommendations to
improve the program. The reenactment of this legislation is urgently necessary
in order to avoid serious economic and fiscal problems for many States and units
of local government.
1866
