[613]
June 24
Public Papers of the Presidents
United States income tax treaties, although it does have some new features
which are described in the enclosed report of the Department of State.
Such tax conventions help promote economic cooperation with other coun-
tries. I urge the Senate to act favorably on this Convention and exchange of
notes at an early date and to give its advice and consent to ratification.
The White House,
June 24, 1976.
GERALD R. FORD
NOTE: The convention and accompanying papers are printed in Senate Executive K (94th Cong., 2d sess.).
614
Remarks Upon Signing a Special Message to Congress
Transmitting Proposed School Busing Legislation.
June 24, 1976
TO MANY Americans, busing appears the only way to achieve the equal
educational opportunities so long denied them. To many other Americans,
busing appears to restrict their individual freedom to choose the best school
for their children to attend.
It is my responsibility and the responsibility of the Congress to seek a solution
to this problem-a solution true to our common beliefs in civil rights for all
Americans, individual freedom for every American, and the best public educa-
tion for our children.
Today, I am submitting to the Congress legislation which I believe offers such
a solution. I ask the Congress to join with me in establishing the guidelines for
the lower Federal courts to follow. Busing as a remedy ought to be the last
resort, and it ought to be limited in duration and in scope to correcting the
effects of previous violations. These legislative guidelines are drawn within the
framework of the Constitution.
I believe every American community should desegregate on a voluntary basis.
Therefore, I am proposing the establishment of a committee composed of citizens
who have had community experience in school desegregation and who are
willing to assist other communities in voluntarily desegregating their schools.
Citizens groups I have consulted on both sides of the busing issue have told
me such a committee would be a welcome resource to communities which face
up to the issue honestly, voluntarily, and in the best spirit of American
democracy.
1908
