[476]
May 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
476
Remarks at a Rally in Johnson City, Tennessee. May 14, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Congressman Jimmy Quillen, Senator Howard
Baker, Governor Winfield Dunn, Ed Williams, Reverend Johnson, fellow
Americans:
At the outset, let me congratulate and thank the East Tennessee State Uni-
versity Marching Band and the other fine bands and wonderful organizations
here. I am deeply grateful for your attendance and the wonderful music.
I am likewise most grateful that Governor Winfield Dunn is here He was
an outstanding Governor for you in the State of Tennessee for 4 years. He was
one of the most outstanding Governors in the whole United States during the
period that he served you in Tennessee. And it was my privilege and my honor
as the minority leader in the House of Representatives to work with him on
many, many projects involving your State and involving Governors through-
out the country, and I thank you very, very much.
I am deeply grateful to my very good and very old friend, Howard Baker,
for his endorsement. You have in Howard one of the outstanding Members of
the United States Senate. Nobody in the Congress knows more than Howard
involving the problems of energy, nuclear power. And he was tall and strong
in the difficult days in 1972 and 73 and again in 1975 and 76 involving the
problems of the intelligence community. And I thank you from the bottom of
my heart, Howard, for your endorsement and your support.
Obviously, it's a great honor and privilege for me to be in Johnson City
again. I was here in 1972 at a delightful and wonderful opportunity to meet
many of you from Johnson City. I deeply appreciate Jimmy Quillen's generous
and very, very strong support. I've worked with him in the Congress when I
was minority leader all the time that we served concurrently. We're close per-
sonal friends. And he and I have worked together for 4 years for the medical
school project of this community.
With this great crowd, it's just great to be in Johnson City, home of the
Tennessee Buccaneers, the Science Hill Hilltoppers, the Constitution Hall
Bandits, and the Independence Hall Rebels.
My message today to the people of Tennessee can be summed up in just a
very few words. As much as I believe in a strong and prosperous American auto-
mobile industry, I am here to say this year there is absolutely no reason whatso-
ever to trade in your Ford on another model.
1572
