[422]
May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
422
Remarks at a President Ford Committee Volunteers Reception
in Birmingham. May 3, 1976
LET ME thank, at the outset, Mildred Lee and Charles Chapman for the
wonderful job that they have done and, in the finance area, Hall Thompson
and Bill Acker. But let me also express just as emphatically, just as grate-
fully, my appreciation for what each and every one of you have done. Betty
and I thank you very, very much.
Quite a few years ago, I had my own indoctrination in trying to work in a
Presidential campaign. I hate to mention it—it's so far back—but I campaigned
actively in 1940 for Wendell Willkie. And I volunteered and spent the whole
summer in New York City trying to do whatever I could in whatever way I
could, much as all of you are doing here.
But it was so encouraging for me to hear what Mildred said about the
possibility of us doing very well and the possibility that if we do whatever we can,
we might win in Alabama. Believe me, that's good news.
I know from time to time as you talk on the telephones or as you speak to
your neighbors or you talk to others-wherever you might be in the great
State of Alabama-people ask, "Why should I vote for President Ford?" Well,
let me give you a few examples of what I think are good, sound arguments with
anybody who will listen and have an open mind, an objective point of view.
First, let's go back and take a quick look at what the situation was in our
country in August of 1974 when I became President.
There had been a great loss of faith in the Government of the United States.
There had been a loss of confidence. Number two, we were experiencing at
that time over 12 percent inflation. We were literally on the brink of the worst
economic recession that this country has had for 40 years with unemployment
about to go up and employment about to go down. We were still engaged in
a conflict in Vietnam, some 8,000 miles away. I was faced with a Congress
which was very hostile. I was faced with-well, many, many problems both
at home and abroad.
And I think we can say with all honesty and sincerity that this country has
made a lot of progress in the last 20 months. Let's take each item.
I think the American people know that honesty, integrity, faith in Govern-
ment has been restored in the White House.
The facts and figures tell you what has happened in the economy. Instead
1460
