[323]
April 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
Union, because if you look at the flow charts, they bring these drugs across the
border and they fan out in almost organized routes that end up in Chicago or
New York or any one of the other places.
So, what is done at the border, or what is done behind the border in Mexico
is significant from the point of view of the people in the other States of the Union.
I believe, and I believe very strongly, that the leaders of Mexico feel that to-
gether we seized a great opportunity; and we, working together in conjunction
with one another, can stem the tide of new drug invasion within a year.
That is a hard goal, that is a tough accomplishment, but with their coopera-
tion and our joint efforts, and with the help and assistance of local and State
officials in Texas and elsewhere, we can effectually achieve a substantial reduc-
tion in the supply at the source, as well as crossing the border.
But frankly, our efforts must not stop there. We must also accelerate our law
enforcement efforts here throughout our own country. Frankly, despite all the
rhetoric of recent years I do not believe that we have yet succeeded in making it
tough enough for drug traffickers. As far as I am concerned-and I think this
is shared by virtually everybody in the Congress, the House, as well as the
Senate the people who traffic in hard drugs are nothing less than merchants of
death and should be put behind bars for a long, long, long time.
Yet the Justice Department studies show that more than a quarter of those
convicted of narcotics trafficking do not spend a single day in jail. The ex-
traordinary laxity that sometimes exists was illustrated just last month in a
case when law enforcement officers arrested 31 people, most of whom were
major violators responsible for very large shipments of heroin into the United
States. Nineteen of those arrested were immediately freed on a $500 personal
recognizance bond, even though their offenses were punishable by 15 years in
jail. All but 2 of the 19 had long, long arrest records, and one was on parole
for a narcotics offense-unforgiveable, completely indefensible.
I believe that we have to close legal loopholes that permit traffickers to escape
the Federal penitentiary. Those who live off the misery of others must pay the
price, and the higher the price, the better, as I see it.
To his great credit, the new head of the Drug Enforcement Administration,
Peter Bensinger, who incidentally is off to a very fine start, quickly intervened
in the case that I mentioned. Warrants were reissued for 4 of the 19 and bail was
raised to $10,000 for each of the others. I can't tell you the end result because it
hasn't been concluded, and we shouldn't talk about individual cases by name.
But something has to be done to prevent the kind of an illustration that I
indicated.
1060
