April 10
[330]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
of people. I like to see progress, and you in Amarillo have the right spirit; you
have the right objectives; you are agriculturally oriented; you do the best. You
have got some oil and gas, you are doing well. You have got some retail, whole-
sale centers, and you are doing darn well there. Amarillo doesn't do badly in
anything, and I am proud of you, and so should you be.
You know what it all comes back to, it's the right kind of spirit. If you think
you can do something, and if you work at it, you can accomplish it.
And now let me relate that to what we have tried to do in the last 20 months
since I have been President. Let your mind go back to August of 1974. We were
in trouble. We had inflation at 12 percent or more, we were about to fall into the
worst economic conditions, the worst recession we have had in 40 years. We had
our allies abroad concerned about whether the United States would stand tall
and strong. We had some adversaries who might have been tempted to take ad-
vantage of a new President.
First, we decided that we weren't going to panic, we weren't going to let the
Congress smother us with some quick-fix legislation in order to get a superficial
answer to our economic problems.
We decided that the best way to get jobs for Americans, to lick the inflationary
problems, was not to add thousands and thousands and thousands of people to
the Federal payroll, but rather to try and find a way to provide an incentive for
the private sector, where five out of six jobs are available anyhow.
So what has happened in 20 months, I think we can be darned proud of the
progress we have made. Inflation has been cut from over 12 percent to about 6
percent, and it is going down. A year ago unemployment was a terrible prob-
lem-8.9 percent unemployment. In the last 12 months, we have taken em-
ployment up 2,600,000 more jobs. Last month, we added 375,000 more jobs in the
American economy. Unemployment is going down, and employment is going
up because we decided to stick with the free enterprise system instead of having
the government try to satisfy the problems.
But you know we also had a little pressure from Congress. Congress wants
to spend money like you just haul it out of those wells. I don't know what your
well situation is here, but in Michigan, I tell you, we have lots of them, and the
Congress wanted to spend money like it was water. And believe me, that is not
the way to balance the Federal budget. It is not the way to reduce your taxes.
So, what we decided to do was veto all the big, budget-busting bills that Congress
sent down. We vetoed 47 of them and 39 of them have been sustained. The best
news is that we saved you $13 billion by those vetoes that Congress sustained,
and $13 billion in savings is worth the effort. And I thank you for supporting us
1095
