[356]
April 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
them as well as to you—that next month this committee, this Evansville group,
will be featured at a nationwide conference in Washington sponsored by the
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service.
At that conference the members of your committee will have a chance to tell
the Evansville story to interested groups from all over the Nation. This is a great
example of how labor and management, under the guidance and the stimula-
tion of local government, can make a high record of achievement and accom-
plishment, and I congratulate all of you on this success.
Lately we've heard a lot of talk about what the Federal Government can't do,
but as a Congressman for 25 years, as President for over 20 months, I have come
to know what the Government can do and what it should do. One thing we
should do is to extend general revenue sharing across this country. As we are all
aware, the Federal Government is very good at collecting taxes, and at the local
level you people on your own are very good at making good decisions. So, I
propose that we extend the general revenue sharing program and channel even
more of that tax money back to you through your State and local units of
government.
Since revenue sharing began in 1972, the city of Evansville has received almost
$10 million in general revenue sharing funds. That money right here locally
helped to pay for public services, it helped to improve your city by repaving half
of the streets, by upgrading your fire department equipment. Right now those
revenue sharing funds are being used to protect you and your families from
crime.
Revenue sharing is a matter of common sense. And on another front, my ad-
ministration has used common sense and taken a very steady course, a very stable
approach to our economy and, frankly, we can see the results almost every day.
Everything that is supposed to be going up is going up, and everything that is
supposed to be going down is going down.
In the first 3 months of 1976 we had our smallest quarterly inflation rate in 4
years, and in those same 3 months, our national product grew at an annual rate of
71½ percent. That shows we are in the middle of a very healthy economic re-
covery, and that's good news for every American.
The sound and steady policies of this administration have restored confidence
in the American people. Our policies have created an economic climate that
gives the American people the freedom to work, to carn, and to buy and to
invest as they want to.
I also believe very firmly, and have fought for all my life in political history,
1172
