April 10
[325]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
THE PRESIDENT. I want the votes, to the maximum degree possible, of all ele-
ments of our society. I don't believe that one should make a specific appeal to
any segment of our society for a vote on the basis of what I promise. It is my aim
and objective—it has been, it is, and it will be-to have a program that meets the
needs of all segments of our society.
I recognize that there are certain interests that one group or another may have.
In the case of blacks, the minority economic assistance program. We have done
well in that. We have done very well in trying to provide summer youth em-
ployment. I recommended the maximum possible under the law, and that has
a particular impact on minority youth because they have the highest rate of
unemployment.
So, what we try to do is to recognize a problem that affects all of our citizens.
If it affects one group more than another, and we get an answer, it, in my opin-
ion, is the right approach. But to offer as a specific program to a particular group
in order to get their votes, I don't think that is the way a candidate for the
Presidency should operate. I don't intend to do so.
JOHN CONNALLY
[7.] Q. Mr. President, this is a question about John Connally. Milk mustache
or not, Mr. Connally would definitely be an asset to you, especially in Texas now,
and later as a running mate. If he does not support you in the campaign, will this
automatically erase him as a running mate possibility,
THE PRESIDENT. John Connally has made a decision, which was his decision,
as I understand it, not to support any of the two Republican candidates in the
primary. I respect his judgment. John Connally is a very close, personal friend
of mine. I have great respect for his record in public office and his record as a
citizen of the State of Texas. I wouldn't think that his failure to support me
would in anyway whatsoever prejudice any opportunity to serve in my admin-
istration for the next 4 years.
DECRIMINALIZATION OF MARIJUANA
[8.] Q. Mr. President, in view of your remarks last night concerning drug
traffic across the borders of Texas and Mexico, and the increased Government
pressure and crackdown on pushers especially, will there be any utilization
of the so-called Shafer Commission report, the President's commission on mari-
juana and dangerous drugs, and a reevaluation of what you consider dangerous
drugs and dangerous drug traffic, i.e., with regard to the decriminalization or
legalization of marijuana?
1069
