April 26
[365]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
tion in our economic recovery is required to keep it going. They believe higher
Federal spending on a host of social programs will stimulate a more rapid
recovery and that the Government should provide jobs for everybody if private
employers don't do it fast enough.
Somehow, the congressional majority still believes, if their budget can be our
guide, that continued massive Federal deficits and borrowings need not be in-
flationary. Perhaps now that the cost of living has stopped skyrocketing, what
they are really telling us is that just a little more inflation is good for you. Well,
you know and I know they are dead wrong.
These economic theories have been wrong for years; they are wrong now, and
we are about to prove how wrong they are. Every economic indicator says we
are on the right course. I don't intend to be sidetracked now. But we Americans
are practical people. We are interested in results.
The American people won't conclude the Congress is wrong in its economic
approach just because I say it is or you say it is. The American people want more
and better jobs, with paychecks that are worth as much next week as they were
last week. Two hundred and fifteen million Americans want unemployment to
come down and inflation to stay down.
Congress says the answer is another quick fix like the Humphrey-Hawkins
approach. You and I know that won't work.
I will do my part, but the answer is up to you. You are the real jobmakers. I
call upon you and millions like you who believe in the free enterprise system to
go home and put more and more and more Americans back to work. I call upon
you and millions of other Americans to demand that Congress help control infla-
tion by cutting Federal spending and returning more tax dollars to the people
who earned them.
I challenge the businessmen and businesswomen of America and all the pro-
ductive people of this great country to roll up your sleeves and show the world
that our great free enterprise system is still hale and hearty in this Bicentennial
Year and for the future. If we fail now, we may never get another chance.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:23 a.m. at Constitu-
tion Hall. In his opening remarks, he referred to
Clinton Morrison, chairman of the executive commit-
tee, and Richard L. Lesher, president, Chamber of
Commerce of the United States.
1215
