[434]
May 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
dent Fords seated behind a desk with caption asking, "Will the real Jerry Ford
stand up?"
Today, 2 years later, the real Jerry Ford has stood up. You have taken me full
measure. In keeping with the artistic and journalistic responsibility to call the
shots as you see them, you have, in all honesty, in my opinion, treated me very
fairly, and for that I thank you.
I concede that a pen is mightier than a politician. Only 6 or 7 seconds are
required to read and digest a cartoon. That is why you have such a big advantage
over those of us in political life. It may 6 or 7 months before the public forgets
a cartoon that hits the target, and that takes us up to next November.
I am pleased to take my chances with your cartoons, because I know that you
depict all candidates without fear or without favor. Your cartoon art is a very
vital American safeguard against the deception of voters by any candidate,
especially those that demagog false issues or fuzz up the real issues.
We in political life-and I think the public as a whole-count on you to rip
away facades with penetrating realism, and just as you asked for the real Jerry
Ford to stand up, I congratulate all of you for asking the very same question
for all the new and old faces of 1976.
I have heard cartoonists say that their cartoons make a complex situation really
very simple, while the editorials usually found on the same page make a simple
situation really very complicated. [Laughter]
I am glad that we are in agreement on that. We all know the old Chinese
proverb that a single picture is worth 1,000 words. Every cartoonist realizes this
anew each time he starts to write the caption. So it is with political campaigns.
We often see the real situation behind the mask, but can't always at the outset
put the precise caption on it.
Yet, there is a very basic and penetrating wisdom that emerges in cartoons.
I am confident that the same insight exists in full abundance among the Ameri-
can people. And that is why I personally face the future with complete and total
confidence.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE The President spoke at 3:50 pm in the East
Room at the White House. In his opening remarks.
he referred to Draper Hill, president of the associa
tion and cartoonist for the Det: it News, and Alberto
Huici, president of the Club de Caricaturistas de
Mexico.
1478
