May 24
[522]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
can be very frank and very honest in saying to you in a few words, as much as
I believe in a strong and prosperous American automobile industry, and I do,
I've come here to say this year there's absolutely no reason to trade in a reliable
Ford for a flashier model. [Laughter]
But let me say, I am here asking you for one favor, my fellow Americans—
for your support-because I think I have done a first-class job for all Americans
in 22 months. I have done it under tough circumstances, but we have maintained
peace, moved America on the road to prosperity, restored trust and confidence in
the Presidency. And I am here in California to say I am staying in the race. And
I want a mandate from you and all over America so I can finish the job that we
started 22 months ago.
Peace, prosperity, and trust are the record of my performance since I became
your President. It's a record achieved against what seemed like insurmountable
obstacles. Consider for a few moments, if you will, where we were when I became
President in August of 1974. You were, I am sure, told by some well-known
economists, some labor and political leaders—they were predicting that we were
heading into a deep depression; that unemployment would soon exceed 10 per-
cent; that only massive Federal spending could avert a catastrophe.
Inflation had soared to an annual rate of over 12 percent. About a year ago,
we hit the bottom of our worst recession in 40 years. Many were urging that
we push the panic button. In Congress, the economic downturn set off a clamor
for more and more, bigger and bigger deficit spending and all kinds of phony
programs that wouldn't have solved the problem.
You and I know, standing here today in the San Fernando Valley, that the
prophets of doom were wrong. We didn't panic. I never lost one bit of con-
fidence in the American people. I retained what I think is a basic philosophy—
that a government big enough to give us everything we want is a government
big enough to take from us everything we have.
In those tough days, we resisted big spending schemes that would have
caused larger Federal deficits and even more destructive inflation. We rejected
the discredited techniques of all politics-tax and tax, spend and spend, elect
and elect. Instead, we pursued a calm, steady, constructive policy to ensure
America's economic health not just for an election year, but for the long pull.
We had faith in America. I had faith in you here in this great valley, faith in
the older people, the younger people, and faith that we could do the right
thing for these young people I see in blue uniforms, brown uniforms—that's
what it's all about.
Yes, the faith that we had had resulted not in a depression, not in a recession,
1701
