June 25
[617]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
The White House,
June 25, 1976.
NOTE: The reports are entitled:
"Motor Vehicle Safety, A Report on Activities
Under the National Traffic and Motor Vehicle
Safety Act of 1966 and the Motor Vehicle Infor-
mation and Cost Savings Act of 1972 (January 1,
1975-December 31, 1975) U.S. Department of
Transportation, National Highway Traffic Safety
Administration, Federal Highway Administration-
Report by the President of the United States to
the Congress, 1975" (68 pp. plus appendixes).
"Traffic Safety, A Report on Activities Under
the Highway Safety Act of 1966 (January 1, 1975-
December 31, 1975) U.S. Department of Transpor-
tation, National Highway Traffic Safety Adminis-
tration, Federal Highway Administration-Report
by the President of the United States to the Con-
gress, 1975" (82 pp. plus appendixes).
617
Remarks at a Reception for Members of the Republican
National Committee.
June 25, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Mary Louise, and Members of the Congress, mem-
bers of the National Committee, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
It's really wonderful to see you all, and I am especially delighted again to see
so many good Republicans in the White House. [Laughter]
I was reminiscing as I came over here, and the records show that we all got
together on a similar occasion on February 26 of this year. At that time, I apol-
ogized for Betty being absent. I said she liked to travel. She had at random at
that time happened to be in Florida. [Laughter] She still likes to travel; she
picked at random today, Minnesota. [Laughter]
But I can assure you that she feels as I do, that we welcome each and every one
of you to the White House. As Mary Louise said, we strongly believe that this
is the home of the American people, and we feel very strongly it is wonderful
to have so many good Republicans here. And it is particularly pleasant to know
that we have so many good Republicans who are deeply interested in the phi-
losophy of the Republican Party and, more particularly, the need and necessity
for a united Republican Party.
On that point, I think we all have to be very realistic. If you take the polls,
the Republican Party has 20 percent of the people in this country who are eli-
gible to vote. Our opposition has substantially a greater percentage. There are a
great number of people in-between our people and theirs.
And so, we can't go to Kansas City and end up at the convention at that time,
where half of the people go home and won't work and won't go out and work to
achieve what we really and very strongly believe in, which is the philosophy
1915
