[378]
April 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
No reputable military expert that I know about or have heard about has
suggested such a course of action. Such a policy, if you can call it that, would
undermine rather than strengthen our defense. Let's look at the manpower
question another way.
The United States has some 3 million farmworkers in all 50 States. The Soviet
Union has 39 million farmworkers. Does that mean that we have to increase the
number of farmers by 36 million in order to be equal to the Soviet Union? Of
course not.
Our American farmers, equipped with the best technology in the world,
relying upon the free market and their own ingenuity, feed seven times more
than their Soviet counterparts year-in and year-out. Indeed, American farmers
even help to feed the Soviet people.
The bottom line is this: It isn't always the number of men that count in the
final analysis, but the quality. And as far as I am concerned, the men and women
of the United States Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marines are the best in the
world bar none, and we should be proud of them.
Obviously, we should exercise great caution before heeding the words of a
man who obviously has no experience and little understanding of the com-
plexity of national defense matters. Superficial arguments based on incomplete
knowledge are fundamentally harmful rather than helpful.
I believe that a man who is campaigning for the highest office in this land
must be willing to talk seriously about his policies and the consequences of his
policies. When it comes to the life and death decisions of our national security,
the decisions must be the right ones. There are no retakes in the Oval Office.
Glibness is not good enough; superficiality is not good enough. Every serious
candidate for the Presidency must be equal to the burdens and the responsibility
of the Presidency.
Sometimes, when I hear the critics complaining about America, its defense
policy, America and its foreign policy, always complaining but never offering
any programs of their own, I am reminded of one of the finest Texans I ever
had the privilege to know in the Congress of the United States.
Sam Rayburn served 50 years in Washington with over 3,000 Congressmen
and Senators and 8 different Presidents. At the end of a long day, after he had
worked hard to make a better life for America, when he heard from the chronic
complainers, Sam Rayburn loved to recall what his father once told him: "Any
donkey can kick a barn down but it takes an awfully good carpenter to build
one up."
Now, as far as the national security policies of the United States are concerned,
1254
