April 23
[357]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
increased employment by 2,600,000, so that at the present time we have
86,600,000 Americans gainfully employed, the most ever in the history of the
United States. Now, we didn't have this success because we loaded up the Federal
payroll. We made this progress because we gave the free enterprise system an
opportunity to work, and that is where the jobs are.
Now let's turn for a minute to the situation that we face around the world. In
the 20 months that I have been President, we have strengthened and solidified our
alliance in Western Europe. Our relation with NATO, with Britain, with West
Germany, with France, with Italy, with all of the NATO countries is better
today than it ever has been, and Western Europe is strong and we are a part
of it.
If you turn to the Middle East, because of the fact that both Arabs on the one
hand and the Israelis on the other trust us, we have been able to make steady and
I think constructive progress toward a permanent, a fair peace in the Middle
East, which is an area in the world which has been the most volatile area, most
controversial area in the history of mankind. Because the United States, because
this administration is trusted by all parties, we are able to make headway in the
future as we have in the past.
So, whether you are talking about Western Europe or the Middle East, or if
you are talking about the Pacific, the United States and Japan have the closest
possible working relationship, and we have friends and allies that believe in
us in the Pacific.
Now let's turn to our adversaries. We have slowly but constructively worked
on our relations with the People's Republic of China, 800 million strong. We are
on course with the People's Republic of China and the meetings that I had there
were constructive and were progressive.
Now, our dealings with the Soviet Union-we have made headway in resolv-
ing some of the problems. We solved the problems of West Berlin. We have, for
the first time in a negotiated agreement in the handling of nuclear problems,
gotten an agreement where we can have onsite inspection in the Soviet Union,
and that's progress.
That is a breakthrough that a number of Presidents before me have tried, and
we are the first to accomplish it. It is an indication that they know that we mean
business and that it is in our mutual interest to achieve something of that kind.
So, what I say to you is simply that in 20 months we have made headway at
home, we have made great progress abroad, and this administration in the next
1183
