[582]
June 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
reports I have detailed the Administration's efforts to revitalize the negotiating
process so that the legitimate aspirations of all parties, and particularly those
of the refugees, could be accommodated quickly and in the most just manner
possible.
Differences on procedural issues have long prevented the Greek-Cypriot and
Turkish-Cypriot communities from broaching such critical issues as territory,
the form and function of the central government and other constitutional issues.
Throughout the period since the hostilities of 1974, we have consistently urged
serious consideration of these issues. As my most recent report indicated, an
agreement was reached at the February round of the Cyprus intercommunal
talks in Vienna, held under the auspices of United Nations Secretary General
Waldheim, to exchange negotiating proposals on the key substantive issues of
the Cyprus problem. When both sides submitted proposals in April to Secretary
General Waldheim's Special Representative on Cyprus, a new impasse developed
which delayed a complete exchange on the territorial question. Additionally, in
April, Glafcos Clerides resigned his position as the Greek-Cypriot negotiator.
These developments, with the subsequent appointment of new Greek-Cypriot
and Turkish-Cypriot negotiators, resulted in the postponement of the next ne-
gotiating round which had been scheduled to take place in Vienna in May.
On April 15, I invited Greek Foreign Minister Bitsios to the White House
for a very useful exchange of views on developments relating to Cyprus.
In addition, the United States and other interested parties maintained close
contact with Secretary General Waldheim to support his attempts to resolve
these difficulties and resume the intercommunal negotiating process. These ef-
forts culminated in discussions on the occasion of the Oslo NATO Ministerial
meeting in late May where Secretary of State Kissinger held separate meetings
with Turkish Foreign Minister Caglayangil and Greek Foreign Minister Bitsios,
following which the Greek and Turkish Foreign Ministers met together to dis-
cuss outstanding bilateral issues including Cyprus. In the course of this process,
the Secretary of State stressed the absolute need to move expeditiously to dis-
cuss the key outstanding Cyprus issues.
The Secretary of State also publicly emphasized our continuing concern that
a rapid solution of the Cyprus dispute be achieved and reiterated the firm posi-
tion of this Administration that the current territorial division of the island can-
not be permanent.
Following the meetings in Oslo, views on territorial issues were exchanged by
the two Cypriot communities, and it should now be possible to reinitiate the ne-
gotiating process under the auspices of UN Secretary General Waldheim.
1858
