April 29
[387]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
What would be the nature of the battle in November between yourself and
Jimmy Carter, especially in view of former Governor Carter saying that you
have failed to provide leadership in all areas ?
THE PRESIDENT. If by chance former Governor Carter is the Democratic nomi-
nee, again it will be a challenge between a proven record on my part—where
I think we have been very successful in taking a very bad economic situation
and turning it around so that we are now on a stable and a constructive road to
economic prosperity, and where our foreign policy, in my judgment, has been
one of strength and success. It will be a contest between Carter and Ford, on a
record and a challenger.
THE PRESIDENT'S TEXAS CAMPAIGN
[3.] Q. Mr. President, Michael Morgan, KHOU-TV, in Houston.
When we were up to speak with you last week at the White House, you men-
tioned that you thought you had closed the gap here in Texas between your-
self and Mr. Reagan. Has this 4-day campaign blitz by you closed the gap even
more?
THE PRESIDENT. I have been very, very encouraged by the wonderfully warm
reception we have received in Texas for the last 2 days. And I have met with a
great many of my volunteer Ford people here in the State of Texas, and they
are getting more and more enthusiastic.
I find a good spirit and the determination, and the net result is I think we
have closed the gap. We are making it very, very close, and I am always opti-
mistic. And we certainly have generated a lot of momentum that I think could
very well give us an opportunity to win.
But we are working hard. We have good leadership, good programs, good
policies, and in the next 2 days, we hope to enhance the possibilities of success
on Saturday.
U.S.-SOVIET RELATIONS
[4.] Q. Mr. President, Walter Rodgers, representing the Associated Press.
There has been a perceptible chill in U.S.-Soviet relations. You have dropped
the word détente. Secretary Brezhnev's visit has been scrubbed, and there is no
immediate prospect that the SALT II treaty will be signed. To what extent
has the campaign been responsible for this very perceptible chill in Soviet
relations?
The President. I haven't detected any significant change in the communica-
tions between the Soviet Union and the United States Government. We are still
1299
