April 29
[387]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
I would like to talk about the economy for a minute, if we could. There have
been some analysts around the country, also your opponent has said that some
of the economic measures that your administration has put into effect are
merely stopgap measures, and the country could possibly be in a recession in
1977 and 1978.
The President. Well, those, of course, are typical campaign scare charges
and have no substance whatsoever. We took a very serious economic recession
that reached its bottom in April or May, a year ago, and by strong, affirmative,
constructive policies we have been able to turn the economy around. We have
reduced, for example, the rate of inflation from over 12 percent when I became
President, down to less than 3 percent for the first 3 months of 1976. That is a
75-percent reduction in the rate of inflation. Now, those are trends that are going
to continue, whether it is an increase in employment, a decrease in unemploy-
ment, and a reduction of the rate of inflation. Those are solid achievements, and
I think the Ford administration can take credit for them. And we are not going
to have any lapse in the months ahead.
Q. Then you feel that the United States is on the course for a peacetime
prosperity?
THE PRESIDENT. Absolutely.
RONALD REAGAN AND NATIONAL DEFENSE PROGRAMS
[11.] Q. Mr. President, Muriel Dobbin with the Baltimore Sun.
You have said you would not rule out Mr. Reagan as the Vice President
because of statements he has made in the heat of the campaign, yet yesterday
you described Mr. Reagan as superficial, glib, irresponsible, and too inex-
perienced. Should your comments also be read in terms of campaign rhetoric, sir?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think you have to set the record straight. And as I said
yesterday, the charges he has made for the last month or two have indicated
some desperation on his part, and the more desperate you get, the wilder the
charges, and I understand that. I have been through a number of political
campaigns, but you have to meet them head on, and that is what we have tried
to do by pointing out that the United States is unsurpassed in military capability,
that the United States does have this tremendous capability industrially, agri-
culturally, scientificially, and technically. That is the bottom line, and that's
what we ought to be talking about, not undercutting the capability of the United
States.
1303
