[547]
June 2
Public Papers of the Presidents
River and the Gulf of Mexico open, protecting the southern and western flanks
of the Americas.
The formal entrance of Spain into our war of independence in 1779 brought
valuable support to the American cause. The city of Galveston, Texas, today
honors the name of Bernardo de Gálvez. The city of Washington soon will have
a statue of Gálvez, a generous Bicentennial gift of the Spanish people, to com-
memorate the contribution of this gallant Spanish soldier-statesman to the in-
dependence of the United States.
The understanding and traditional friendship between our two countries
continues to endure. Today, we look forward to even closer cooperation with
Spain.
I last visited Spain just over a year ago. I was deeply moved by the warm wel-
come accorded by the Spanish people and particularly by you, Your Majesties.
Since then great changes have taken place. Your country has entered a new
era under your wise and able leadership. It holds great promise for the future.
of Spain and for the western community of nations. I am confident that your
leadership will prove more than equal to the great task ahead and that the
promise of the future will be fulfilled.
Both of our countries today face very complex challenges. We look to our
own future with confidence, and we take great confidence from the assurance
that the Spanish people will meet these challenges with the qualities they have
shown in their long and illustrious history-courage, dignity, strength, and
pride.
Our bilateral relationship, as confirmed in the recently concluded Treaty of
Friendship and Cooperation, is excellent. I stated last year and I reaffirm today
that Spain, through its bilateral defense cooperation with the United States,
makes a major contribution to the Western World. We are agreed on the in-
terests of our two countries, share in common objectives and common burdens
promoting the prosperity, security of the Atlantic and Mediterranean region.
We are very proud of our historic ties with Spain. We are encouraged by
Spanish progress under your leadership. We look forward to building and
strengthening our relationship. Your Majesties, I am privileged to extend to you
the sincere welcome of the people of the United States.
NOTE: The President spoke at 10:43 a.m. on the
South Lawn at the White House, where King
Juan Carlos of Spain was given a formal welcome
with full military honors.
King Juan Carlos spoke in Spanish. His remarks
were translated by an interpreter as follows:
Mr. President, Mrs. Ford, the Queen and I
thank you most sincerely for your invitation, for
your hospitality, which at this moment we are
beginning to enjoy, and for your words of welcome.
Mr. President, I should like you to consider this
visit the first we have made overseas since my
1772
