April 10
[333]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
FEDERAL ENERGY POLICY
[10.] Q. Mr. President, a year ago I wrote you a letter on how us kids
should get involved in the energy crisis, and I received a letter in return. Now, I
would like to know what the Government is doing to conserve our energy for
our future?
THE PRESIDENT. That is a very good question, but let me answer it this way.
About the time that you wrote me that letter a year ago, maybe a little longer,
I submitted to the Congress a comprehensive energy program aimed at achiev-
ing energy independence for the United States by 1985.
There were two basic concepts: One, the stimulation of more production of
energy in the United States on the one hand and, secondly, to conserve energy
on the other. Among those legislative proposals to stimulate more production,
I recommended the decontrol of domestic oil production and the decontrol of
natural gas production.
Unfortunately, the Congress, after pulling and hauling for about 12 months,
finally sent down to the White House, the Oval Office, a marginally acceptable
oil bill, which I with some reluctance signed. I signed it because it had some
provisions which were very helpful in the conservation field, and it had some
advantages over a period of time of decontrolling our domestic oil production,
a 40-month period. I can assure you I will use every possible provision of that
legislation to accelerate the decontrol of the domestic oil industry. Secondly,
the Congress has not acted on deregulation of natural gas. The Senate passed
a good bill, the House passed a terrible bill, and I am afraid they are at
loggerheads.
But now let's turn to conservation. In the energy proposals that I submitted,
we recommended about eight individual items that would conserve energy.
Congress passed four of them. They are being implemented, and it is encour-
aging to note that our domestic utilization of oil and gas, energy as a whole, is
down about 2 percent from 1973 and 1974. Now, some of that has come about
because we have had an economic recession. I concede that. But actually, if you
compare it, 1975 to the 2 previous years, the American people did quite well.
They drove less fast, or drove slower; they turned down their thermostats; in-
dustry had a great program of using less energy in the manufacturing of their
products.
In many, many ways the American people undertook a good conservation
program, not as well as we would have liked, but we did make headway, and if
we can get several more pieces of legislation, I think, we will do even better.
1107
