[461]
May 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
higher than 3 percent by the end of 4 years. If not enough private jobs are avail-
able, the Federal Government will make work. How much all of this would cost,
how long such public payroll jobs would continue, what the added inflationary
impact would be really defies any rational calculation. Never mind, the law
would get the Federal Government deeper and deeper into economic planning
on a national scale unprecedented in America's history.
I'm obviously against the Humphrey-Hawkins bill and all of the other schemes
to give Washington more and more control over your lives. Instead, as an
alternative that I think makes a lot more sense, I have proposed tax reductions
and other tax reforms to create more and better jobs in private industry.
Some were enacted last year and are obviously working, but others, such as
tax incentives to stimulate investment in new plants and equipment, are stalled
in the Congress and should be acted upon quickly to help the job situation in
hard-hit areas, such as we have here in the great State of Michigan.
I have also recommended to Congress that starting July 1 of this year, we
get an additional $10 billion tax cut, 75 percent of it going to individuals and
25 percent of it going to business to provide employment. As part of this tax
reform package, I have proposed the personal exemption be raised from $750
to $1,000 for each individual Federal taxpayer. In addition, I want the estate
tax exemption increased from $60,000 to $150,000 so small business owners and
small farmers can have the opportunity again to pass their businesses or their
farms along to the next generation. Such proposals, as we have analyzed it, will
give middle-income taxpayers, who have been shortchanged in recent years, the
kind of tax relief they both need and obviously deserve.
As we work to ensure prosperity, it is essential to remember that the Ameri-
can people want and demand the finest Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marines
that money can buy and they don't want our unsurpassed power for peace to
become a political football this year. In providing funds for new military weap-
ons and national security needs, an area of the Federal budget that Congresses
have systematically gutted by some $50 billion over the past decade, I am happy
to report that the preliminary congressional figures are roughly the same as the
record $114 billion defense budget that I submitted to the Congress in January
of this year.
In this area at least, Congress seems to be getting the message, probably be-
cause I threatened to veto any defense appropriation bill that was inadequate
because of congressional reductions. In fact, if progress in some areas has been
slower than it should have been since I became President, those who are critical
1538
