April 28
[379]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
379
Exchange With Reporters on Arrival at Fort Worth, Texas.
April 28, 1976
GOOD MORNING.
First, it's nice to be here at Carswell, and just as I arrived I had learned that
the outfit here had, within the very last few days, gotten a hundred-percent
rating on their performance on an operational alert, so I want to congratulate
the base, the people, the support folks for doing an outstanding job. This is
the kind of defense program we have—a hundred percent. I wish we could do
that in politics.
Now, I will be glad to answer any questions.
REPORTER. Mr. President, do you still think Hubert Humphrey is going to be
your Democratic nominee after Mr. Carter's performance yesterday?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I would say that the momentum for Carter has cer-
tainly accelerated and it seems to me unless they go to a broker's convention and
a smoke-filled room, that it will probably be Carter.
Q. Mr. President, over in Dallas a couple of weeks ago you thought the
Middle East was stabilized. In view of what's happening with the new regime
possibly coming into Lebanon, do you think this is taking a further stabilization?
The President. Yes, I do, and before I left Washington yesterday I met for
about a half an hour with Ambassador Dean Brown who just came back from
spending about 3 weeks in Lebanon. And he believes that the situation is slowly
but surely improving, and that the prospects for a settlement there have in-
creased very significantly. It's still a hard road but the situation has improved,
and we are optimistic that it will improve.
Q. Are you still adamant on your vetoing interim funds if they come
through?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, when you look at the overall record, in 2 fiscal years I
have recommended for Israel over $4 billion and correspondingly lower figures
for Egypt, for Jordan, for Syria, it seems to me there is no need in a 25-month
period for any more than the amount of money that I recommended, which
was over $4 billion for Israel.
Q. Mr. President, you accused Ronald Reagan of being simplistic and not
understanding the complex national defense issue and not being able to have a
retake in the Oval Office. Aren't you engaging in personality politics, which
you said you hoped to avoid?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I had hoped to avoid it but when I heard and read some
1263
