April 10
[327]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
would like to know how you propose to get this commonsense approach that
you have mentioned into our EPA and Mr. Train? [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I recognize it is one of the most complicated and con-
troversial problems, not only between agriculture and EPA but between industry
and EPA, between communities and EPA. And I am not trying to duck it,
because virtually every day, whether I meet with mayors, Mayor Henderson, or
whether I meet with Governors, or whether I meet with industrialists and, now,
with people connected with agriculture, they complain about the rigid regula-
tions and the enforcement of those regulations by EPA.
I have to say to a substantial degree the Congress, in passing the legislation,
required certain actions by EPA. They can only modify their regulations to a
limited degree because they have to carry out the law. And it is my judgment
that in a number of instances, the legislation upon which EPA predicates its
decisions must be reanalyzed.
In fact, we are recommending that they do it in such as the Clean Air Act
and some of the other areas. And there is a new water quality group under the
Vice President that just made a report that recommended certain changes in
the requirements for 1978 and 1981. Therefore, I think we have got to get some
changes in the basic law, but in the meantime, I would hope that the head of
EPA, Russ Train, would take a look at all of the areas—and there are some in
agriculture—that in my opinion have to be reanalyzed under current
circumstances.
The enthusiasm with which they were originally promulgated, I think, when
they are analyzed in the cold, hard fact of reality, don't work. And therefore,
we will do our best to get Mr. Train to review any and all that you or others
think are unfair or inequitable under existing law.
TAX REDUCTION AND FEDERAL SPENDING
[3.] Q. Mr. President, how would you propose to solve the problem of the
ever-increasing national debt? And along with this problem, do you think there
is a possibility we could have tax reform that would give some relief to the mid-
dle Americans who are now carrying the burden or the greatest share of the
burden?
The President. Let me answer the last question first. Over the period of the
last 10 or 15 years, the so-called middle class have been getting a worse and
worse deal. The people in the lower or lowest income brackets got the biggest
relief, and there was really no substantial impact on those at the higher brackets.
1083
