April 30
[403]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
403
Remarks at a Reception in Lubbock for West Texas
President Ford Committee Volunteers. April 30, 1976
THANK YOU very much, Deana. I thank all of you. This has been a wonder-
ful, wonderful opportunity to be in Lubbock, to go to Texas Tech and meet so
many of the fine young students and others at the university. And it has been
a great pleasure to have an opportunity to shake hands with so many of you
and to say hello and to indicate to you my appreciation for the tremendous job
that has been done.
You know we are just about 30 hours down to countdown, to the final whistle,
so to speak. I know you have done a great job—phone banks and every other
way to get out the maximum amount of votes that we can get in this area.
I am tremendously encouraged by not only the quality of people I see here
but the energy and enthusiasm. When we came here first about 3 weeks ago and
I spent a few days in Texas, came back, I had the feeling that we were definitely
an underdog. But as I have gone from Longview, to Tyler, to Fort Worth, to
Houston, to Dallas, to Conroe, here to Lubbock, and we are leaving shortly to
go to Abilene, I get a totally different feeling.
We have the momentum going, and we believe that it is going to be a very nip
and tuck, very close contest.
But with the momentum that we have, with the kind of leadership that we
have under your great senior Senator John Tower and the quality and the energy
that all of you have, I think the basic programs that we have both domestically
as well as internationally and militarily, we are going to come right up to that
edge and we can tip it over if we make a maximum effort between now and
when the polls close tomorrow night.
Let me just say this: This administration, from the very outset, has adopted
one very basic policy. We would promise only that which we believe we can
deliver and we will deliver everything we promise. That is what the American
people want, and that is what this administration will do for the next 4 years,
just as we have done it for the last 20 months.
Now, let me talk for just a minute about some of the sales pitch that I think
you can honestly make as you talk to your friends, whether it's by phone or oth-
erwise. Just refresh your memory a minute back to August of 1974. At that time,
we were suffering inflation of about 12 percent or more. The reports came out
just a week or so ago which indicated that the rate of inflation, for the first 3
1379
