[561]
June 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
State officials to solve the tax problems in causing public schools to close on
July 1. Do you agree with Mr. Udall, or do you support a new tax program
in the State?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think I should comment on what the State of New
Jersey should do about its home tax matters. The Federal Government does
contribute significantly to educational programs in the State of New Jersey,
as it does everywhere, but the State tax matters ought to be decided by the State
legislature and the Governor.
Q. There is a statement that I've heard that Mayor Gibson has said wherever
America is going, Newark will get there first. In some ways that might not be
too good. Do you feel there is anything that the Federal Government can do
to help improve where urban centers like Newark are going?
THE PRESIDENT. I've had a number of meetings with Mayor Gibson; we've
talked about what the Federal Government can do. For instance, we have to
extend the general revenue sharing program. That would bring a significant
amount of money, about $10 million to the city here. That would be very, very
helpful. And if Congress does not pass general revenue sharing, it will put
a very, very serious crimp in Mayor Gibson's plan to continue what he has been
doing with general revenue sharing for the last 4 years.
In addition, we have the community development program, which makes a
significant contribution to Mayor Gibson's effort to rebuild the city. There are
those two programs, plus a number of others, that can be very helpful.
Q. Mr. President, I wonder, did you authorize the TV ads in the State of
California, and are you going to withdraw them?
THE PRESIDENT. The President Ford Committee made that decision. The
President Ford Committee I have faith in. I approve the concept, because I
personally wanted my record known that I would not, under any circumstances,
commit U.S. military personnel, U.S. troops, to Rhodesia or southern Africa.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:54 a.m. at Newark International Airport.
562
Remarks at Dedication Ceremonies for the Great Falls National
Historic Site in Paterson, New Jersey. June 6, 1976
Mayor Pat Kramer, Governor Byrne, Senator Peter Williams, distinguished
Members of the House of Representatives, Congresswoman Fenwick, Congress-
1804
