April 27
[371]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
For 25 years in the Congress I stood for, I spoke for, and I voted for a strong
national defense capability. For 14 years, as my former colleagues in the Congress
well know, I served on the House Subcommittee on Appropriations for the De-
partment of Defense, which each year examined in great detail every single
defense program, policy and then provided the appropriations for the Army,
the Navy, the Air Force, the Marines, and always, in those years, I came down
strongly on the side of strength for our military capability, and I am very proud
of that record.
During the years before I became Vice President, as minority leader of the
House of Representatives I fought openly and hard year after year for maximum
military strength. In the last 2 years, as your President, in support of your own
superb achievements here at Barksdale, I have recommended to the Congress
to approve the two largest defense budgets in the history of the United States.
And I pledge to you today that as long as I hold this honored Office I intend to
see to it that the United States will never become second to anybody, period.
Unfortunately, the United States Congress has not shared that goal in recent
years. A majority in the Congress have slashed defense expenditures by $50
billion over the last 10 years, despite my efforts, Joe Waggonner's efforts, Ed
Edwards' efforts, and the fine efforts of many others.
No one knows better than you—those of you in uniform and those who serve
here in a civilian capacity and those of you who live in this community—the
need for strength and modernization in the field of strategic warfare and stra-
tegic weapons. That is why we are now completing the final testing of the
world's most modern and capable strategic bomber—the B-1. That is why I
have proposed replacing our older tactical aircraft with newer and more capable
aircraft, including a new air combat fighter. That is why I have proposed in-
creasing the purchase of air-to-air, air-to-ground missiles and why we intend
to follow through on the plans for a new attack helicopter.
There are other essential weapons systems in the works as well, in the Army,
in the Navy, in the Marines, not as a provocation for war but as our best in-
surance for peace.
As a major world power, we in America have an obligation to maintain peace
and security both here and abroad. We cannot hope to meet that obligation
through irresponsible actions or rash behavior. Our strength will be meaningful
only if it is matched with our resolve—our resolve to keep the peace, our resolve
to preserve and defend our precious freedom.
We cannot shrink from the responsibilities which our position in the world
has thrust upon us. Our role is too important, too crucial to be shirked or ignored.
1229
