April 27
[369]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
369
Remarks Upon Presenting the President's Trophy to the
Handicapped American of the Year. April 27, 1976
LET ME say how pleased I am to have an opportunity to participate in making
this award to Bill Kiser of Winston-Salem, North Carolina, who has been
picked as the Handicapped American of the Year.
Bill, we congratulate you. I have looked over your record, and it is a record
that any American would be very, very proud of. For a person to have achieved
the great success that you have in the field of the news media—you have your
own column, you have your own radio setup—this is a great achievement, and
all of us are very, very proud of you.
But I think as we look over your record and see the problems that you had
from literally birth to the present time, it just is an inspiration to each and every
one of us. I know that we have made a great many strides in this country in pro-
viding incentives, in providing programs for the handicapped, but it is my im-
pression that Bill Kiser would have made it on his own, regardless. And I think
that's what is exemplified in your character, in your tremendous effort, so you
just deserve this award. And it is an award that should be an inspiration for all
others who are handicapped to do as well as you have done and to set the ex-
ample that you have set not only for this generation but for those to come.
I congratulate you. I am looking forward to reading your book and, in the
meantime, we are very, very proud of you.
I will give this on behalf of me, as President, to Governor Holshouser, and
he will see to it that it is properly returned to you so you can have it among
your many collections of rewards and achievements.
MR. KISER. Thank you.
GOVERNOR HOLSHOUSER. Mr. President, on behalf of those of us who are here
from North Carolina, this is a very special moment. You and I, by the nature
of our offices, have a lot of ceremonial kind of occasions, and yet this is one that
comes very close to the heart. Watching a man who has a brilliant mind and
at the same time whose body is giving him some problems, and watching the
achievements that he has made has simply been remarkable.
I am very proud and honored that he has asked me to respond for him today
in this regard.
1225
