May 22
[505]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
United States foreign policy must never be made by an elite establishment nor
bent to the fears of a frustrated few. It must reflect the real purposes of the
American people when they follow their very finest instincts.
There are issues of tremendous complexity and equally great opportunity on
our international agenda for the next 4 years. I cannot cover all, but will discuss
several.
Let's talk first about our relations with the Soviet Union, with which we are
negotiating in a number of areas to improve stability between the superpowers
and further reduce the danger of a runaway nuclear arms race and the risk of
thermonuclear holocaust. Take SALT II, the talks on limiting strategic nuclear
weapons. Both sides have more than enough of these terrible weapons to deter
any attack by the other side. But in the absence of any agreements, the require-
ment to avoid strategic inferiority has impelled both sides to keep on building
more systems at a tremendous cost.
What are we trying to agree to? A maximum figure for strategic missile
launchers and bombers that either side can have ready for use at any given time.
At Vladivostok, for the first time, I got the General Secretary, Mr. Brezhnev, to
agree to equal numbers for us as well as for them. For years previously the So-
viets had insisted that their situation required that they have more than we.
The strategic weapons of our NATO allies wouldn't be counted against our
own total.
What's more, the numbers we agreed on require them to destroy some exist-
ing strategic systems and allows us to finish our present program. If they want
to build new ones, they must scrap the same number of old ones. That was a
good deal for the United States, and I'm darned proud of it.
So, what we are hung up on at the present time? The fundamental remain-
ing issue is how to deal with certain new systems-we call them gray area sys-
tems—which are capable of either strategic or tactical use. We are working hard
right now to resolve the problem in a way which preserves the interest of both
sides.
If we succeed, I will promptly send the negotiated treaty to the Senate for
full public scrutiny and public debate. The same is true of the peaceful nuclear
explosion agreements, which were concluded earlier this month after 18 months
of highly technical negotiations. For the first time since they exploded an
atomic device, the Soviets have agreed to allow Americans on their territory to
inspect large-scale peaceful explosions and make sure that they are not secret
weapons tests.
This is an historic breakthrough for more certain verification procedures to
1647
