May 26
[535]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
long delay in passing this necessary legislation. Unless revenue sharing is ex-
tended before it expires at the end of this year, communities across Ohio and
the rest of the country will be severely penalized. Communities such as here in
Columbus and elsewhere would be forced to raise local property taxes and State
taxes in order to continue vital public services which revenue sharing would
provide. The Congress must reenact my revenue sharing proposal without
delay.
Two other items must be given congressional action in the next several weeks.
One is the B-1 bomber program. In considering the military procurement bill,
the Senate recently voted to delay the B-1 production until February of next
year. That vote was both unnecessary and unwise. Our armed forces are manned
by the best trained men and women in the world, but they must have the tools
to do the job. We need to get on with the B-1 program this year, not next year.
Finally, I urge the Congress to vote in the next few weeks for a full P.L. 480
program. Over the years the Food for Peace program, in addition to playing an
important role in the implementation of our foreign policy, has provided ex-
panded markets for American farm products. A provision of the security as-
sistance bill presently pending in Congress would impose a $175 million
ceiling on P.L. 480 assistance to Korea. This action would severely hurt the
American farmer who depends upon stable markets for his crops and would
severely restrict the economic growth potential of one of our key allies. We need
strong agricultural exports, and we need a full Food for Peace program. I
strongly urge the Congress to remove this limitation.
One other item of significant importance: Last June I proposed to the Congress
legislation that would establish a major new private industry in America
providing the enriched fuel for nuclear power reactors. My proposal, the Nu-
clear Fuel Assistance Act, would make it possible for the United States to
maintain its leadership as the world's supplier of uranium enrichment services
for the peaceful use of nuclear power. The Joint Committee on Atomic Energy
in the Congress has made some modifications on my proposal and approved it.
I have reviewed the changes in the bill and concluded that I will support it.
The bill meets five fundamental objectives, which I stated a year ago:
-First, act to meet the future needs, domestic as well as international, for this
essential energy source;
-It would end the governmental monopoly on supplying enriched uranium
for nuclear powerplants;
-Three, establish a procedure whereby private enterprise can bring into
commercial use the techniques created by Federal research and development
1745
