May 25
[524]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
capability—in my judgment, most of our other problems can be solved in the
process.
So, I intend to make sure that we keep for the next 4 years the kind of prog-
ress and headway in jobs, in licking inflation, and equity for those people who
are seeking employment with the emphasis on the private sector.
Thank you all very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:02 a.m. in the
Grand Ballroom at the Hyatt House International
in Los Angeles. In his opening remarks, he referred
to John McSweeney, president of the Los Angeles
Press Club, Evelle J. Younger, California State at-
torney general, and Bishop John J. Ward of the Los
Angeles archdiocese.
Prior to his remarks, the President was presented
with an honorary life membership in the Los Angeles
Press Club by Mr. McSweeney.
524
Exchange With Reporters on Arrival at San Jose, California.
May 25, 1976
GOOD MORNING, everybody. It's nice to be in San Jose. We've had a superb
trip that took us to two other States, plus the great State of California. It's nice
to see two of my former colleagues here, Al Bell and Pete McCloskey.¹
I think we have had a very successful trip in California so far. The reason
that I'm encouraged is the programs that I have tried to put forth, implement,
and execute for the last 21 months have been programs that I find appealing
to people in California.
We have tried, as I think all of you know, to restore confidence in the White
House, to turn the economy around, to get more jobs, and we have achieved
that with some 3,300,000 more jobs in the last 12 months. We have 87,400,000
people gainfully employed at the present time, an alltime record.
And if you look at the area of foreign policy, we have achieved the peace, we
have it, and the policies, both military and diplomatically, will continue to main-
tain that peace. So, we are hoping and trusting that the people in the six primary
States today and the three that come June 8 will give us the kind of support
that will ensure the nomination and the election in November.
I will be glad to answer any questions.
REPORTER. Mr. President, how do you think you will score in delegates in
today's six primaries?
THE PRESIDENT. I think we will break at least even. I am naturally hopeful
Representatives Alphonso Bell and Paul N. (Pete) McCloskey, Jr., of California.
1713
