June 29
[622]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
casting, pollution monitoring, forestry and land use studies, and in mineral
exploration.
I had the pleasure and thrill of talking to our astronauts and the Soviet cos-
monauts when they linked up in space at the culmination of the historic U.S.-
U.S.S.R. Apollo Soyuz Test Project.
Major milestones were met in the development of the Space Shuttle, the Na-
tion's current major space project. Canada agreed to develop the remote manip-
ulator system for the Shuttle, a major and welcome contribution.
Development of Spacelab, a key system to take advantage of the capability
of the Space Shuttle and being built and funded by the European Space Agency,
continued on schedule.
We continued to probe the unknown in space. Pioneer 10 will be the first man-
made object to venture beyond our solar system. Pioneer 11 will make the first
flyby of Saturn in 1979. In passing Jupiter these vehicles sent back pictures that
added greatly to our knowledge of the largest planet. Last August and Sep-
tember we launched two Viking spacecraft toward Mars. They will arrive at
the height of our Bicentennial celebration and may provide information on the
existence of life in some form on our neighboring planet.
In aeronautics, research focused on the technologies needed to reduce fuel re-
quirements, noise, and pollution. Also emphasized was improved reliability,
performance, and safety. Military aircraft development featured the first super-
sonic flight of the B-1, the operational deployment of the F-14 and F-15, and
the selection of the F-16 and F-18 as future fighter aircraft.
The fruits of our research continued to be enjoyed by the transfer of space and
aeronautics technology to many beneficial uses in our society, including energy
research, medical care, transportation, and new techniques and materials for
manufacturing.
Our Nation's activities in aeronautics and space continue to be a major con-
tribution to our quality of life and economic growth.
We can all take pride in our commitment to advancement in space and aero-
nautics as reflected in the accomplishments described in this report.
The White House,
GERALD R. FORD
June 29, 1976.
NOTE: The report is entitled "Aeronautics and Space Report of the President, 1975 Activities" (Government
Printing Office, 112 pp.).
1927
