[423]
May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
gained 2,600,000 more people on the payroll of the private enterprise system
of this country. We now have 86,700,000 people gainfully employed, the highest
number in the history of the United States.
So I think we have a lot to talk about, and we are not going to be overwhelmed
by some of the emotional appeals that have been made by some people.
I thought Jack Edwards, who really knows something about the defense.
program of this country and what we have in the Army, the Navy, the Air
Force, and the Marines, because of his very unique experience on the Defense
Appropriations Committee-and Bill Dickinson is also on the House Armed
Services Committee, and I am sure that Bill agrees entirely with Jack Edwards
that all of this talk about the United States military being second-it is
nonsense.
Furthermore, both Bill and Jack can tell you categorically, a year ago I sub-
mitted the highest military budget in the history of the United States. And this
year I also submitted the highest military budget in the history of America,
increasing the funds by 14 percent. So, this President is doing what is needed
and necessary to keep America strong, period.
Let me ask you one question: How many here yesterday heard our wonderful
friend, Barry Goldwater, on "Meet the Press"? Apparently some of you didn't,
so let me say at the outset. In 1964 I supported Barry Goldwater because he was
right. And I am proud of it. In retrospect, I think he was right.
But here is the transcript of Barry Goldwater's interrogation on "Meet the
Press" yesterday, and there is one issue that has been raised. I think I have tried
to get the record straight, to give the facts, but sometimes another person can
do it better than yourselves. And now here is Barry Goldwater being asked about
the Panama Canal, and here is the question: "On the Panama Canal, who is
right on that? Whose position do you support, Ford's or Reagan's?" Senator
Goldwater, in response: "I have to support Ford's position on it, and I think
Reagan would, too, if he knew more about it."
So, what I am saying-we have got an affirmative record. We should be proud
of it, at home and abroad. We also have the answers to the charges that have
been made in the political campaign. So each and every one of you delegates can
go back to your respective communities and with pride, I think, get those votes.
So, I will see each and every one of you delegates and alternates at Kansas City.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 6:40 p.m. in Room F
of the Civic Center. In his opening remarks, he re-
terred to Mildred Anne Le and Charles Chapman,
cochairmen, Hall Thompson and William P. Acker.
finance cochairmen, Alabama President Ford
Committee.
1
1464
