[327]
April 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
much at all and isn't very constructive in approach. So, I don't know what the
House will do about it.
In the meantime, the regulations that I have proposed have been published in
the FEDERAL REGISTER. They can go into effect, I think, in another couple of
weeks, and we can't wait for the Congress to act, particularly if they are going to
do a bad job, which it appears they have done.
John tells me that the Senate version costs about $500 million more. That is
not going in the right direction. [Laughter]
So, we are going to go ahead with our regulations. And hopefully we won't
be sued and won't be precluded from putting them into effect. But our pro-
gram will save $1,600 million. What it does is to take away the benefits from those
families above the poverty line-and the poverty line just got increased to $5,200
or $5,300—and it makes more certain that families that are below the poverty
line get better treatment. Now, that is the way it ought to run, and at the
same time we can save $1,600 million.
Q. Mr. President, Floyd Becker, Dallas, Texas. What, in your opinion, are the
possibilities of a national health plan becoming a reality, and what is your
position on that subject?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me see if I am sure I got the question. Do I favor national
health insurance programs? Is that it?
Q. Yes, and would there be regulations in there that would, in your opinion,
that would keep us from going broke trying to sponsor this thing?
THE PRESIDENT. I did not recommend to the Congress in the State of the Union
Message, nor do I intend to in 1976, any national health insurance program. I
don't think we can afford it during a budget year when we are trying to save
money. I don't think we have it finalized to a degree that it is acceptable.
I think any plan that has been put together so far does not fit in with our
understanding or our beliefs for the patient-doctor relationship. I just don't be-
lieve that the United States ought to embark on a program of that kind.
Let me add one other point. I have, however, recommended a national-not
a national but a catastrophic health insurance program for Medicaid and Medi-
care people. There are roughly 25 million Americans who come under Medicare
and Medicaid who are-about 3 million of them have in one way or another a
catastrophic illness where the costs are high because of long hospital or nursing
home care, or the costs are high because of operations or medical care.
I think we ought to help those people who are tragically hurt by these cata-
strophic illnesses, but it is a limited program to help those who see their savings
gone and who are forced by these tremendous costs to, in effect, go on welfare.
1088
