[321]
April 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
just taking numbers without understanding the problems doesn't explain the
facts of life.
Now, let's take another question that has been raised. The allegation is made
that the Soviet Union has more missiles than we. That is true, but what do we
have? We have more warheads than they by about 4 to 1, and it is warheads,
not missiles, that destroy the target.
And our missiles and warheads are more accurate, and our launching pads
are more survivable, so we are in a better position to survive. And we are in a
better position because our warheads, what we want, are in greater number.
So, I just caution people that before you take a chart that compares numbers,
that you understand something broader than just the numbers. You have to
compare apples and apples, not apples and oranges, as some people try to do.
I will tell you, the best military expert in this audience is you own Senator,
John Tower. He is the ranking Republican on the Senate Committee on Armed
Services, and I can tell you from my experience with him-when I was in the
Congress and he was on several conferences with the House and Senate with
me-there wasn't a better or more knowledgeable person, a harder fighter for
what he and I stand for than John Tower. You are darned lucky, and so is the
country, to have him.
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING PROCESS
[12.] Q. Mr. President, the subject that I am going to touch on in this ques-
tion is rather delicate and possibly controversial in an election year, so please do
not answer it if you feel the answer might hurt your chances of being reelected.
[Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. If I won't answer it, I will get Betty down here to answer it.
You can count on her to announce it. [Laughter]
Q. It probably is going to destroy any chance of my ever holding a public
office. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, go ahead.
Q. The question is, in view of what is happening in Great Britain and in sev-
eral of the other nations, could you please consider the inequities that might be
involved in the monopolistic trends that we see in collective bargaining?
THE PRESIDENT. You mean between labor and management?
Q. In terms of collective bargaining on the labor side. We have monopolistic
controls on the management side, so to say, but I was wondering if there were
any inequities involved in giving them laissez-faire in their grouping together?
The President. If I understand the question, I strongly believe in the Taft-
1052
