June 6
[570]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
ago was blighting the whole country. In the meantime, in the last 12 months,
we have increased employment 3,300,000 jobs. In the last month we added
300,000 more jobs, and today, according to the last report of Friday of the
Bureau of Labor Statistics, we have 87,700,000 people gainfully employed in the
United States, an alltime record.
When we look at the world scene, we find that we are at peace. No American
boys are fighting overseas, and we are not going to commit any, such as in
South Africa or Rhodesia. This policy of this administration is to diplomati-
cally keep the peace that we have achieved and keep it during this administra-
tion by being militarily strong and diplomatically skillful.
It's a pleasure to be in Ohio, and it's nice to be in Cincinnati tonight.
I will be glad to answer any questions.
REPORTER. How do you feel about the primaries?
THE PRESIDENT. I am very encouraged. I think we will do well in Ohio. I
have been here a good many times in this State. I have a great many friends. We
have an outstanding organization, headed by the Governor and Kent McGough
and Keith McNamara¹ and all the other people throughout the State, and
I'm very encouraged.
Q. Does this last-minute campaigning in Ohio indicate any concern on your
part that you may be lagging or may not be doing as well as you would like?
THE PRESIDENT. Not at all, because I have been in Ohio a good many times
during my Presidency. I have been here recently on a number of occasions.
We just wanted to make sure that the people of Ohio know that I care about
the 97 delegates in the State of Ohio, who are very crucial in the convention
victory that we are going to have in Kansas City and the eventual victory in
November when the contest is between the Republican candidate and the
Democratic candidate.
Q. Mr. Reagan said today that you had reduced the campaign to a very low
level that he thought the Republicans would never aspire to. Do you have any
comment on that?
THE PRESIDENT. I think the Ford campaign has been conducted at a very
high level. We have only told the truth. We have been very straightforward in
meeting any comments or issues that have been raised. We have told the truth
across the board. And I have faith in the committee that represents me at the
national level. I think as long as we tell the truth to the American people,
you can't lose.
¹ Ohio State Republican chairman and Ohio President Ford Committee chairman, respectively.
1825
