May 23
[512]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
And I add, as many of you I'm sure know, I recommended in my budget for
the next fiscal year the full cost-of-living increase in social security benefits. I
think this is the proper thing, the move that is required if we are to keep faith
with those in our society who have earned and retired.
And let me say, I have also proposed major improvements in the Medicare
program to make it serve you better. One of the most important improvements
would provide for the full payment of all but a very small fraction of the cost of
catastrophic illness and extended care.
There's no reason whatsoever that older Americans should have to go broke
just to get well or to stay well in the United States of America.
Under my proposal the individual contribution to Medicare would go up
slightly. But consider what the increase would provide. Nobody eligible for
Medicare would have to pay more than $500 a year for hospital or nursing home
care or more than $250 a year for physician services. Medicare would pay the
rest. Whether it was $1,000, $10,000, or $50,000, I think it is a good program, and
I would appreciate your support.
Our problem is the Congress. The ruinous economic burden of catastrophic
illness is one thing, if this passes, you will never have to worry about again, And
you deserve it, and the country ought to enact it, and it ought to be on the statute
books.
Now, let me ask you or say to you, there are several other programs that I
have requested that the Congress authorizes which should be of some special
interest to older Americans. One would ease the burden of estate taxes. While
the value of the dollar has eroded, our system of estate tax law has changed very
little since the 1930's. To restore fairness and equity, I have proposed increasing
the present $60,000 estate tax exemption to $150,000. And I have also proposed
that if there is any tax yet remaining after the increase to $150,000, that the pay-
ments be extended over a period of 25 years with a very minimum amount of
interest paid on an annual increment that you pay to the Federal Treasury.
But the third and probably the most important ingredient is how it affects
married couples. At present, as many of you know, I'm sure, transfers of assets
between husbands and wives are often subject to substantial taxation. I have pro-
posed legislation which would make those transactions or transfers totally tax
free.
This commonsense, equitable treatment of assets of a husband and wife is far
too long overdue, and I hope and trust that the Congress of the United States
will respond this year before they end their session sometime before the next
election.
1673
