[401]
April 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
stay long enough to see the Red Raiders game this afternoon, the rodeo tonight,
and your great Coaches of the Year, the All American game on June 19—I
would love to be here for that.
Before I go any further, to tell all you CB'ers out there, I bring a special hello
from First Mama-and from First Papa, too.
I am looking forward to answering your questions. But as a starting point, let
me tell you where I stand on two very vital issues for all Americans-agricul-
ture and national defense.
As the State which produces more cotton, more cattle, and more grain sor-
ghum than any other, just to mention a few firsts, Texas has played a major part
in one of the most successful farming years in America's history. In fact, the
last 2 years have been the highest net farm income years in history, and that
is a very tremendous record in America's history.
I don't think it is mere coincidence that these very successful years have been
years when the Government left the farmer alone. The Government let him
produce without a lot of bureaucratic interference from the Nation's Capital. I
can promise you that that is the kind of successful farm policy that I intend to
pursue for the next 4 years.
Today, we have no longer any heavy farm surpluses hanging over the farmers
market costing the Government $1 million a day in storage fees. Instead of pil-
ing it up, we are selling grain at a record volume. And let me assure you I am not
going to use America's grain as a pawn in this country's foreign policy.
Our farm policies and the hard work of American farmers yielded a $21.6
billion agricultural export market last year, and it will be more than $22 billion
this year. We are working now to increase it even more.
Those policies, that hard work will enable the American farmer to export an
estimated 47 million metric tons of feed grain, an alltime record in the current
marketing year. This is a $12 million more record than we exported last year
and about $7 million more than we exported in the previous record years of
1973 and 1974.
Our policies will enable the American farmer to export between 1.5 and 1.6
billion bushels of corn during this marketing year and between 250 and 300
million bushels of grain sorghum, another alltime record. And that's progress
by any standard.
These are the policies which my administration has followed for the past 21
months. They have succeeded, and we can make them even more successful in
the next 4 years.
But now let's turn very briefly to the subject of America's foreign policy and
1364
