[417]
May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
phase out some of the supplemental programs as our economic progress
improves in the months ahead, but not CETA as such.
Q. My name is Robert Defiance. I'm the director of the local community
action against poverty program. Knowing your views on such programs as
reflected by the ever-decrease in recommended funding levels, the question is—
and it's the same question I asked Governor Carter last night, similar to the
one that was asked-is that at the demise of that program, how do we ensure
meaningful citizen participation in revenue sharing and, especially, how do we
include the economically deprived, at the decisionmaking level, regarding the
use of such funds?
The President. Well, as I said earlier in response to a prior question, I think
it depends to a substantial degree on the local leadership in the individual
community.
I was looking over the list of projects that had been approved by the mayor
and other officials in the city of Fort Wayne, and although I didn't go into
the detailed process by which those individual decisions were made, it appeared
to me that the mayor and his colleagues in local government had to have an
input from the citizens of the city of Fort Wayne. I know that is true in my
own former home of Grand Rapids, Michigan. The city council, the mayor
there, do get from the local citizens an active process where the local citizens
make recommendations.
Now, I have to concede that they don't always approve everything that is
made as a final decision, but at least the process seems to work, and I think
it can work with the leadership of the mayor and other local officials.
Q. Mr. President, I'm Jack Dustman, a small businessman. Like many in
the private sector we are deeply concerned about the ability to raise capital
which will allow industry and commerce to expand, provide more jobs, more
meaningful jobs. How do you view revenue sharing as having impacted this
area of capital formation or how it might in the future?
THE PRESIDENT, I don't believe that revenue sharing has had a significant
impact on the Federal expenditure picture. It is somewhere between $6 and
$7 billion a year. Our total expenditures for all Government services at the
Federal level-I recommended $395 billion. The Congress has raised that figure
to $415 billion.
So, $6 or $7 billion out of either $395, which is the expenditure figure I pro-
posed, or $415, which the Congress has recommended, revenue sharing is not
a significant part of our overall Federal expenditures and the benefits that come
from revenue sharing I think far outweigh the burden on the Federal Treasury.
1424
