[513]
May 24
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
the Presidency itself. As your President, I will promise no more than I can de-
liver and I will deliver everything that I promise.
In the months ahead, I need your support to ensure peace, prosperity, and
trust for the future, the future that we owe to our children and to our grand-
children. Americans have always wanted life to be better for our children than
it was for each and every one of us, because life for us has been better than it
was for our parents.
What do I see ahead in this great country of ours? I see a strong and confident
America, secure in a strength that cannot be counted in megatons and a nation
rejoicing in riches that cannot be eroded by inflation or by taxation. I see an
America where life is valued for its quality as well as its comfort, where the
individual is inviolate in his constitutional rights, where the government serves
and the people rule.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:30 p.m. at Ross-
moor Leisure World. In his opening remarks, he
referred to Ernest A. Billman, president, Golden
Rain Foundation, Representative Charles E. Wig-
gins, and Evelle J. Younger, California State attorney
general.
513
Remarks in Anaheim at the Annual Convention of the California
Peace Officers Association.
May 24, 1976
Thank you very, very much Ev, Congressman Chuck Wiggins, Sheriff Larry
Gillich, members and guests of the California Peace Officers Association:
I am deeply grateful for the opportunity to be introduced by my good friend,
Evelle Younger, and I am delighted to have an opportunity to be in the con-
gressional district so ably represented by my long and very good friend, Chuck
Wiggins.
It's also a great privilege and honor for me to address this convention of the
Peace Officers of California. Your daily struggle to keep the peace and combat
crime in this State has won the well-deserved praise of the people of California.
I am delighted to add my words of support and gratitude for the great suc-
cess and the fine efforts by each and every one of you. In a special sense, the
goals of your service and mine are precisely the same—to make life secure for
our fellow citizens.
As President for the last 21 months, I have been working at home and abroad
to lay down a solid, secure foundation for America as our Nation enters its third
1675
