May 13
[471]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
-Second, find better ways to achieve our valid economic health and safety
standards at a minimal cost.
—Third, ensure that Government policies and Government programs benefit
the public interest rather than special interests.
-Fourth, ensure that regulatory policies are equitably enforced.
This legislation was born of a common concern for regulatory reform within
the administration and the Congress. Senators Robert Byrd and Charles Percy
and Representatives John Anderson and Barbara Jordan have been in the fore-
front in proposing regulatory reform. And I look forward to working with
them to marshal broad bipartisan support and, hopefully, swift enactment of
this basic legislation.
This new initiative is not in any way whatsoever intended to delay reforms
on which we have every right to expect immediate action. My administration
will continue to reduce unnecessary and burdensome regulations, to cut back
on paperwork and redtape, to make administrative improvements wherever
possible, and to get the Congress to act on reform legislation already submitted.
These are ambitious programs, but I am certain that if America's third century
is to be the century of the individual, we must take the first bold steps toward
reducing the influence of government in our everyday lives and reclaiming that
great freedom that is our most wonderful heritage.
As the proprietors of small business, you possess the traits of individual
initiative, self-reliance, and creativity we prize so highly in America. Those
traits have always been indispensable—indispensable as characteristics of a free
and dynamic and forward-looking people. I believe these traits are still the
dominant ones in America. If they are, then our third century can only be
greater than the two glorious centuries that have gone before.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1:52 p.m. in Regency
Room A at the Hyatt Regency Hotel. In his remarks,
he referred to Dr. Read Powell, chairman of the
Small Business Administration National Advisory
Council.
The luncheon was in honor of small business men
and women award winners from the 50 States,
Washington, D.C., and Puerto Rico.
471
Remarks at a Reception for White House Fellows.
May 13, 1976
WELL, let me just welcome all of you on behalf of Betty and myself. We are
delighted to have the White House Fellows alumni here and their spouses. I
1563
