[483]
May 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
their prompt availability might indeed prevent a situation from developing
into a genuine emergency.
This bill provides the President of the United States with the authority to
call to active duty not more than 50,000 members of the Selected Reserve to
serve for a period not to exceed 90 days. Under this legislation, we can more
effectively utilize many key elements of our Reserve and National Guard forces.
For example, over 60 percent of our tactical airlift and over 50 percent of our
strategic airlift capability are made up of Reserve and National Guard per-
sonnel.
In signing this bill, I can assure the American people that its provisions will
be invoked only when clearly warranted and, at such times, most judiciously.
I congratulate the Congress in enacting this legislation which was requested
by me and the Department of Defense, and I am sure it will very strongly help
and assist our overall efforts to be ready for any emergency and to preserve the
peace.
NOTE: The President spoke at 699 pm at a cere-
at the Galt House Hote
As enacted, the B...
2015
Public Law
4 286 BRO Stat 517
484
Remarks at the Annual Armed Forces Day Dinner in Louisville.
May 14, 1976
General Van Stockum, Ambassador Cooper, Congressman Tim Lee Carter.
Congressman Mazzoli, Congressman Gene Snyder, members of the Armed
Services, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
I am extremely proud to be here in Louisville this evening to address the
Armed Forces Committee and their many, many friends. It's a tremendous
privilege and great honor to address this very distinguished group of outstanding
Americans, citizens who are vitally interested, as I am, in the defense of this
country.
I was happy to see that even in the midst of all of the excitement of the
Kentucky Derby, one of our National Guardsmen, Sergeant Gary Wald, who
was here tonight, I understand, was on the alert. I salute Gary for his quick
thinking and quick action in smothering that smokebomb thrown on to the
race track. And good luck to you, Gary.
You know, we could sure use a few more like Sergeant Wald to smother
some of the smoke that is clouding the real issues before the American people
1592
