May 25
[529]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
But let's talk about taxes for a minute. I recommended in January of this
year that if we would reduce the rate of growth of Federal spending by 50 per-
cent-which amounts in dollars to $28 billion-we could have another tax
decrease for both industry on the one hand and individuals on the other as of
July 1. We are going to fight for that kind of a tax decrease.
What does it do? Lets talk about individuals first. It would increase the
personal exemptions from $750 per person to $1,000 per person, so the middle
income people, who have been shortchanged, will get a fair and decent break
in our tax system.
But then there's another tax proposal that I think might be of interest to you
that was included in this package. One, our estate tax laws have not been re-
vised since the mid-1930's. At that time, the exemption was set in estate tax
laws at $60,000, and the husband and wife transfers were treated just like a
transfer between an individual and a stranger. So, I have recommended to the
Congress that they increase the exemption under our estate tax laws from $60,000
to $150,000. But something that I think is even more equitable, under the pro-
posal that I have recommended, the transfers between husband and wife would
have no tax as far as the Federal Government is concerned.
We have got to provide equity and fairness in our Federal tax system, and I
can assure you that this Congress knows that, I mean business and we will do
the very best we can in the months ahead during this session to achieve a tax
system that is right and proper. But if we are unsuccessful in 1976, I pledge
to you that in the next 4 years we will get the kind of a tax bill that we need
and the country needs and our people need.
Let me talk just a minute or two about peace. We achieved it, we have it, and
we have the military capability to maintain it, and we have the diplomatic
skill in order to keep our friends, our friends and our adversaries at arm's length.
I could describe to you what I have recommended to the Congress for military
appropriations, but let me just summarize. Last year, in January, I recommended
the largest military budget in the history of the United States in order to reverse
the trend, the trend that had resulted in 10 years of Congress, in effect, gutting
the Army, the Navy, Air Force, and Marines.
Do you realize that in that decade the Congress cut military appropriations
by $50 billion? I wasn't going to stand for it, and I said last year to the Con-
gress, give me a budget so we can have the capability with the Army, the Navy,
the Marines, and the Air Force to defend America, to deter aggression, and to
protect our national security.
I think we are making the headway this year, because they recognize that
1731
