May 10
[448]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
He knew where the buck stops, and he was never afraid of the heat in the
kitchen.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 2:50 p.m. at the
Independence Square Courthouse. In his opening
remarks, he referred to Governor Christopher (Kit)
Bond of Missouri, Mayor Richard A. King of Inde-
pendence, Margaret Truman Daniel, President Tru-
man's daughter, and Dr. Harry S. Jonas, chairman
of the Harry S. Truman Statue Committee.
448
Remarks at Ceremonies Opening the Armed Forces Week
Exhibit. May 10, 1976
Secretary Rumsfeld, members of the Cabinet, Members of the Congress, mem-
bers of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, members of the Armed Services, ladies and
gentlemen:
We meet here today in America at a time of peace, but we meet in the shadow
of a monument to one who said: “To be prepared for war is one of the most
effectual ways for preserving the peace." Today, our defenses are strong, and
we will keep them strong-not strong for the sake of war, but strong for the
sake of peace.
Around us this morning are stirring symbols of America's military might.
They remind us of the advanced technology and industry which keeps Amer-
ica's defenses strong. But let us remember, in the midst of this impressive dis-
play, that our military strength does not lie in these weapons alone. It lies in the
muscle and brawn, the sinew and blood and bone of those who serve in our
Armed Forces.
And statistics like the number of missiles, the tonnage of ships, the firepower
of weapons must not distract us from the quality of those who are trained to use
them. Military history has demonstrated over and over again that the character
of a nation's soldiers and their commanders determines military strength more
than any other single factor.
The men and women in all branches of our defense establishment are not
only well-trained and well-armed, but just as important, they are courageous
and devoted to the American ideals of peace and freedom that they may be
called upon to defend. Such soldiers have no price tag. How can we measure
the value of an American who has suffered or died for freedom? Or how much
was a Grant or a Lee, a Patton or a Nimitz or an Eisenhower worth?
We owe these people our eternal thanks and graditude. We owe them our
1517
