[507]
May 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. During this administration, we have had a free market system.
We have sold more of our farm commodities overseas in my 2 years in office than
any time in the history of the United States.
Last year we sold about $22 billion worth of American agricultural com-
modities overseas, an alltime record, and in 1976 we expect to do even better.
We believe that the farmers are prospering because of our strong export pro-
gram, and we have exported more American commodities during the Ford ad-
ministration that at any time in the history of American agriculture.
Q. Can you maintain your delegates lead after Tuesday, the six primaries on
Tuesday?
THE PRESIDENT. I think we will.
Thank you very much.
REPORTER. Thank you, Mr. President.
NOTE: The exchange began at 1:19 p.m. at Pendleton Municipal Airport.
508
Remarks in Pendleton, Oregon. May 23, 1976
MY DEAR friend, the former Governor and former Senator from the State of
Idaho, Len, I want to thank you for coming from Idaho, for bringing a number
of people from that great State to greet me here at Pendleton. I only wish that
I had the time to stop in Idaho, and I hope and trust that you will express to all
of your literally thousands of friends in Idaho my very best wishes. And tell
them that I appreciate their support and will not let them down.
Mr. Mayor, distinguished guests, fellow Americans:
At the outset, let me express my deep appreciation to the fine Pendleton band.
You are great. I am grateful, and God bless you.
May I express my gratitude to the Seever family. That is great, great music.
I have a very special family reason to thank the Seever family. Our third son,
Steve, is trying to become a rodeo rider, a bronco buster, whatever you call
them. [Laughter] He is just a beginner. He won't like me to classify his skill
in that way, but a few months ago he got a Seever saddle. He has been doing a
lot better ever since.
I flew out here yesterday morning to spend 4 days campaigning, meeting
people on the west coast, and my very first stop was right here in the great
1660
