[485]
May 15
Public Papers of the Presidents
I had an integrity I think was unmatched by anybody in public office, and
as President of the United States I have followed those same basic characteristics.
The net result is that I can say to you that the American people have good reason
to feel that the person in the White House has restored public confidence.
I am honored and privileged to have with me on this trip your great Senator
Bob Griffin and your fine Congressman Gary Brown, who both support me.
One thing that I always believed in public life: You should promise only that
which you can deliver, and you should always deliver what you promise. So,
I promise you in the next 4 years peace, prosperity, and trust.
I want your vote on the basis of the record on Tuesday, so we can keep that
momentum going.
Thank you very, very much.
We also have your great University of Michigan basketball coach here, who's
a good friend of mine and fully supporting me, Johnny Orr. I hope my record
is as good as his.
Betty and I will come down and shake hands with as many as we can, and I
don't have the time to shake hands with everybody, but I do want to thank each
and every one of you.
Eddie Hutchinson, nice to see you. Eddie Hutchinson who has been one of
the fine, fine Congressmen from the Fourth Congressional District. Eddie, I
appreciate your endorsement and your support.
[At this point, the President left the train to greet the community welcoming committee
and members of the public audience. Upon reboarding the train, the President made addi-
tional remarks as follows:]
Let me just add a note as we leave Kalamazoo. When I first ran for the Con-
gress back in 1948, a great American, a Democrat by the name of Harry S
Truman, whistlestopped across the United States, and he won. A couple of
years later another great American, another President, Dwight D. Eisenhower,
better known as Ike, whistlestopped across the country. Those were good ideas,
one for a Democrat and one for a Republican. I think it is a good idea for Presi-
dent Ford, and we are going to win in 1976.
Thank you all very, very much.
[6.] NILES (4:12 p.m.)
Let me just say it's been a great day. Betty will be out in just a minute. We
kept going down this track, and right before Niles the sun came out. All of
you wonderful people, thank you very, very much.
Well, as I said, Betty and I have had a wonderful day, starting in Flint
1606
