[418]
May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
EMPLOYMENT AND SCHOLARSHIPS FOR FOREIGN EXCHANGE STUDENTS
[19.] Q. Mr. President, this is not on the election, but I trust you enough
to give you my vote tomorrow.
THE PRESIDENT. We thank you very much.
Q. The reason I want to ask you this question is because this is a field that
I am interested in because I work with international young people who come
to our country to get an education. Now, we have had problems here in Indiana.
Many of these young people come on their own, and they want a job, to work.
Many of them cannot get permission from the immigration [Immigration and
Naturalization Service] to work, which makes it very hard on them even if they
do have a job available.
And I wonder, sir, if you might be able to give us directions in what we can
do to help these friends, because, you see, this is going to help promote good
international relations for us when they get back home. So, that's why I am
interested in this.
THE PRESIDENT. I'm a very strong supporter of the student exchange program
where young Americans go abroad and spend a summer and, in some cases,
a year in many, many foreign countries. And I'm a strong supporter of foreign
students coming to the United States, whether it's for 3 months or 12 months.
But we do run into a practical problem. The practical problem is we have
unemployment at the national average of about 7.5 percent today. And it does
raise the question whether these foreign students coming here take a job away
from an American who wants a job to raise his family or to get his education.
And I believe that the Immigration and Naturalization Service has to be
very discreet. In some areas of the country where unemployment is not serious,
some cities such as those in some instances in Texas, I see no reason why there
can't be flexibility and young people would have the opportunity to work.
But in some areas of very high unemployment, unemployment of Americans,
I think the Immigration and Naturalization Service has to take a somewhat
different point of view because, basically, we have to be concerned about jobs
for Americans.
So, it has to be on a selective basis and, if so, I think it can be handled
appropriately. I agree with you entirely that these young Europeans or others
coming to this country for an education, a living experience with American
families, may go back in most instances and are good will ambassadors for
the United States.
I strongly believe in the program, but there has to be a balance when it
comes to them getting jobs, competing with Americans who also need a job.
1444
