April 10
[331]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
331
Exchange With Reporters in Amarillo. April 10, 1976
GOOD EVENING. I would be delighted to answer any questions from the
local press, and particularly from the pretty girl here.
REPORTER. Texas farmers are very concerned about policy. Not many of the
Presidential candidates are really speaking to the problems of the farmer. What
kind of specifics do you have for the wheat farmer, who is losing money right
now?
The President. Unfortunately, there are some wheat farmers who, because
of weather and other problems, may have had a bad crop in the winter wheat
situation. But we have a crop insurance program, we have a disaster program to
help the unfortunate farmer who has lost a crop because of the weather or other
unforeseen difficulties. We'll make certain, we'll make positive that those pro-
grams move in and take care of those emergency situations. There is no question
the Federal Government has a responsibility, and we'll do our best.
Q. Mr. President, how much do you think the pardoning of Richard Nixon
will hurt you in the campaign?
The President. I don't think it will hurt at all. I think most responsible,
thinking people believe that it was far better to get that chapter of American his-
tory out of our system and to tackle the problems that we had-the high in-
flation, the prospective unemployment, the reassurance of our allies. Those prob-
lems were infinitely more important than having a dragged-on, legal battle that
undoubtedly would have been the case. So, I think most responsible-thinking
Americans understand that it was the right decision.
Q. You just said that we are unsurpassed in military supremacy. Why did Mr.
Reagan accuse or say that Mr. Kissinger said that?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, anyone who knows the facts knows that the Soviet
Union does not surpass the United States in military capability. Our military
forces, when you consider the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, and the Marines,
are unsurpassed by any foreign government. We have the most survivable mis-
sile system. We have the most accurate ballistic missile system. We have 3-to
4-to-1 warheads over the Soviet Union, and it is warheads, not missiles, that do
the destructive action on another enemy or another force. Anyone who says that
the United States is less than number one doesn't understand all the facts.
Q. Mr. President, who are some of the Vice-Presidential hopefuls you are
looking at?
1097
