May 23
[508]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
not only help the family farms of Oregon but family businesses as well. There is
no reason that these wonderful family enterprises should be sacrificed just to
pay the tax collector. And if I have my way, it will be yours and not the tax
collector's.
These family enterprises have helped us turn our economy around in the right
direction for the past 21 months. America's new prosperity cuts across every
segment of our economy. 87,400,000 Americans are gainfully employed, they are
on the job today—an alltime record, and we should be proud of it.
We will create more jobs by following your local example in generating new
jobs in the private sector where five out of six jobs in America today exist and are
available.
Inflation has been cut by more than half during the past 21 months, and we
will keep the pressure on so that we won't have that kind of inflation threaten-
ing our economy in the future.
And let me point this out, if I might: on August of 1974, inflation was 12
percent; for the first 4 months of 1976 the annual rate of inflation is 3 percent or
less. That is a 75-percent reduction, and we should be proud of that record,
also.
I vetoed 49 bills that Congress sent me, and 42 of those bills have been sus-
tained, saving the taxpayers of America $13 billion. That is progress, and for the
benefit of the families, that is about $200 per family in America. And if the Con-
gress keeps on sending to me the big spending, budget-busting bills, I will use
my veto again and again and again.
It is about time you got to spend your money the way you want to spend it,
instead of letting the Congress spend it for you. I am determined that your tax
dollars work as hard for you as you work for them. I want the Government to
spend less and tax less.
Last year, we reduced Federal income taxes. That was sound public policy.
This year, I proposed another $10 billion tax cut to begin July 1, which would
raise the personal exemption from $750 per individual to $1,000 per person.
That is what we want.
Right now,
it looks like the Congress would rather spend that $10 billion and
almost $8 billion more, rather than let you keep it so that you could decide
for yourself how that money should be spent. But let me assure you I will fight
the Congress every step of the way to get your tax relief that you deserve. It will
be good for America, as well as for you individually.
I deeply appreciate this wonderful opportunity to come before you today and
talk about the programs that have returned peace, increasing prosperity and
1663
