[385]
April 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
to reduce benefits for 32 million people, or you are just going to let the trust fund
get down to zero. I think we have to face up to the problem, and I have done it,
and I think it is the right answer.
CUBAN INVOLVEMENT IN AFRICA
[2.] Q. Mr. President, my question is, if the Cuban military units in Angola
take any more action with respect to the nationalistic movements in southern
Africa, what will be the policy of your administration towards Cuba if they
take any military action in southern Africa?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, as we have said, I took the lead-it has been supported
by others in the administration-that if the 12,000 to 15,000 Cubans who went
in and, in effect, with Soviet help dominated Angola, if they were to take any
comparable adventurism in Africa or in Latin America, they should know well
in advance that we have a number of options-economic, diplomatic, and mili-
tary-and we will use the proper option for the circumstances. And they
shouldn't misunderstand it, because we will take charge, and we will do what
is right.
NURSES TRAINING PROGRAM
[3.] Q. Mr. President, the Senate health education bill stated nursing is the
one profession that is doing the most help in consumer health education in the
U.S. today. Do you foresee in your next term of office providing additional fund-
ing for the Nurse Training Act?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, about 6 or 8 years ago a former colleague of mine in the
House of Representatives, by name Frances Bolton-every nurse in the country
knows Frances Bolton, she was the sponsor of the Nurses Aid Act in the Con-
gress of the United States. A nurses training program was established with cer-
tain Federal funding to help and assist local hospitals or nursing homes or nurses
training facilities.
It seems to me, as I recollect the facts, that that aid program has very substan-
tially met the need and the demand for nurses, except for those that require a
certain specialty. A good many of the facilities for nurses training have been
constructed. Most of the basic nurses training programs have been put on a fi-
nancially sound basis with local, State, and Federal assistance.
The area that seems to need the greatest help from the Federal Government's
point of view is in the specialty area, and in that area my view as of now would
be to support that kind of assistance in the future.
1292
