April 30
[406]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
the country, we have reduced the rate of crime in the country from 17 percent
in 1974 to 9 percent in 1975. But we are going to do better and better with the
kind of enforcement, the kind of legislation that I have recommended.
EQUAL RIGHTS FOR WOMEN
[7.] Q. Mr. President, I understand Mrs. Ford leans favorably toward the
movement for women's rights. We would like to hear your comments on where
you stand concerning equal rights for women.
THE PRESIDENT. When the issue was before the House of Representatives and
I was still a Member, I voted for the proposed constitutional amendment so
that it could be submitted to the 50 States for its approval or disapproval. That is
my record. I don't try to hide it. When I do something I don't believe it is fair
to anybody to try and disguise it. I think it was the right thing to do then, and
I think it is the right thing to do now.
NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE
[8.] Q. Mr. President, one final question.
There have been various bills proposed for national health insurance, and I
would like to hear your administration's policy on national health insurance.
THE PRESIDENT. I see no national health insurance program that we can afford
at this time. I see no national health insurance program that has been put to-
gether that would protect the patient-doctor relationship. I see no national health
insurance program that can be implemented without expanding the bureaucracy
unbelievably. I see no such program at the present time that anybody has sub-
mitted to me that I could, in good conscience, recommend to the Congress of the
United States.
One more. If anybody else has one more question I will be glad to try and
answer it.
SOCIAL SECURITY
[9.] Q. Mr. President, I want to know your stand on the social security,
whether it is going to be extended through 1978?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I recommended in the budget for fiscal year 1977, which
runs into October 1 of 1977, that the social security recipients or beneficiaries
should get the full cost-of-living increase, and this year they will get a 6.3-
percent increase, as I recollect—is it July 1 or October 1? I am not sure. But I
have recommended the full cost-of-living increase for all social security
recipients.
1393
