May 25
[529]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
we were faced with three very important problems as a country, 215 million
of us.
The country had gone through a traumatic period-there was a tremendous
loss of confidence and trust in the highest places in our country. We were suffer-
ing some of the most serious economic problems that this country had faced in
a long, long time. We had gone through an oil embargo and tremendous in-
creases in the price of oil forced upon us by countries beyond our shores.
Inflation was rampant at the rate of 12 percent or higher; we were on the
brink of the worst economic conditions in the last 40 years. And as I look around
this audience, many of you can remember, as I do, the 1930's, and those weren't
very pleasant times.
So, we had a real difficult situation to handle. We were confronted with a
deterioration—unemployment was going up and employment was plummeting.
At the same time during that month of August and the few weeks that followed,
our allies abroad, whether they were in the Atlantic or across the seas in the Pa-
cific, were uncertain as to the resolution and as to the will, whether cur form of
government facing this kind of a crisis could recover and could meet the chal-
lenge that was needed and necessary if we were to maintain our leadership
throughout the world.
At the same time, our adversaries, whether in the East or in the West, were in
the position where they didn't know quite how to react, whether to take an
initiative that would be against our interests or to wait and see.
So, when I took that oath of office it wasn't a situation that was most pleasant.
It presented great difficulties and great obstacles. But I decided at that time that
the decisions I would make in the months to follow would be decisions that
would not be related to politics but would be decisions predicated on what in
my heart and conscience I thought was in the best interest of this country.
The net result is in the last 21 or 22 months we have made those decisions.
They haven't always been popular among some people, but when we add up
all of those decisions whether it was in promoting certain taxation proposals or
in vetoing a good many of the measures that were sent down to the Oval Office
by the Congress, in each and every case I could say that I thought I did what was
right for America.
Let me just take one or two examples to illustrate what I am saying. As the
economic problems began to multiply in early 1975 and all the prophets of gloom
were saying we were going to have unemployment of over 10 percent, that we
had to rush in with big spending proposals to put everybody on the Federal pay-
1729
