May 16
[488]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
in Saginaw Township with so many, many fellow Michiganders, who are proud
of their birthright and who are celebrating what is good and great about
America. Saginaw Township-I have known from talking with Al Cederberg
and others—is a young, vibrant community with a very real sense of purpose.
In the planning and the organization of the Bicentennial celebration, you
have brought people together in a wonderful community spirit and a community
effort, and for that I congratulate each and every one of you.
In the tradition of America, you have established new links between families
and between neighborhoods. You have given your township what is so vitally
important for so many communities that are searching for it, and that is the
feeling of identity as well as a common purpose.
If I might say, in my own way in the Oval Office I have been trying to do
precisely the same thing. On August 8 [9] of 1974, when I was sworn in as your
President, I said to the American people our long national nightmare was over,
and it is, my fellow Michiganders. In the last 21 months, we have dispelled the
climate of darkness and despair that hung over this troubled Nation, and we
have let the sunshine in.
I did not seek this office, as all of you know, but neither did I shirk from it,
and I never will in the future. I said that I would promise only what I could
deliver and deliver everything that I promised, and as you look back over the
21 months, that is precisely what we have done.
I said I would be candid and forthright, I would be open and frank with
the American people, and I have been. I said that a policy of firmness and com-
monsense would bring us out of our economic recession; it has.
When I took office, inflation was running as high as 12 percent throughout
our great country. The prophets of doom and disaster said we were on the verge
of a collapse in America and that only massive Federal spending programs would
save us.
Under the pressure from all sources, I didn't panic because I had a lot of faith
in all of you, and I knew that you had the faith and the trust in me. I fought the
attempts of many Members of Congress to spend more and more to create
bigger and bigger deficits that would have led us to higher prices and more
layoffs in our economy. Instead, despite the pressure from many sources, I
vetoed 49 bills that Congress sent me, and thank goodness 42 of those were sus-
tained, saving the American taxpayer $13 billion. If I could personalize it, it
would save each family in America some $200, and that came in mighty handy.
But let me say this: The ballgame is not over yet; this session of the Congress
is still going on. And I promise you that during this session of the Congress, I
1611
