April 19
[347]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
A remedy involving import restraints would have lessened competition in the
shoe industry and resulted in higher shoe prices for American consumers at a
time when lowering the rate of inflation is essential. Footwear makes up 1½
percent of the Consumer Price Index.
Import restraints would also have exposed U.S. industrial and agricultural
trade to compensatory import concessions or retaliation against U.S. exports.
This would have been detrimental to American jobs and damaged U.S. exports.
The U.S. footwear industry is benefiting from a substantial increase in pro-
duction, shipments, and employment as a result of the economic recovery. Addi-
tionally, a number of plants have reopened, order backlogs of domestic manu-
facturers have increased, and profitability has improved.
In considering the effect of import restraints on the international economic
interests of the United States, as required by the Trade Act of 1974, I have con-
cluded that such restraints would be contrary to the U.S. policy of promoting
the development of an open, nondiscriminatory, and fair world economic sys-
tem. The goal of this policy is to expand domestic employment and living
standards through increased economic efficiency.
I have directed the Secretaries of Commerce and Labor to give expeditious
consideration to any petitions for adjustment assistance filed by footwear firms
producing articles covered by the USITC report and their workers. I have also
instructed the Secretaries to file supplementary budget requests for adjustment
assistance funds, if necessary, to carry out my program.
I also direct you, as the Special Representative for Trade Negotiations, to moni-
tor U.S. footwear trade, watching both the levels and quantities of imports as
well as of domestic production and employment. If significant changes occur,
they should be reported to me with appropriate recommendations.
This determination is to be published in the FEDERAL Register.
GERALD R. FORD
347
Message to the Congress on Adjustment Assistance
for the Footwear Industry. April 19, 1976
[Dated April 16, 1976. Released April 19, 1976]
To the Congress of the United States:
As required by Section 203(b) (2) of the Trade Act of 1974, I am transmitting
this report to the Congress setting forth my determination to provide adjustment
1135
