April 9
[323]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
to cope with. There are as many as 20,000 small poppy fields hidden in the
mountainous terrain of the Sierra Madre. With the new equipment that we
have-not only the aircraft, whether it is fixed wing or helicopter, and with
photographic capability-you can see these relatively small, but very productive
and very financially beneficial poppy fields. And I pledge to you tonight that
we will spare no effort to crush the menace of drug abuse.
Clearly, as we look at the picture today, our first defense must be directed
at our own borders to clamp down on the illegal flow of drugs from foreign
sources. And as I mentioned a moment ago, 80 to 90 percent of the current
flow of heroin comes across the Mexican border, having been moved from what
had previously been the case with Turkey and several other countries.
The drugs that come from these fields might be smuggled here in any way,
any one of almost a million vehicles a week that cross border checkpoints, or
aboard any one of 4,000 aircraft that illegally penetrated the border last year,
or even in the backpack of someone who illegally walks across the 2,000-mile
border that we share with Mexico.
Fortunately—and I think we are fortunate-the Government of Mexico,
under the leadership of President Echeverría has been increasingly concerned
with this problem and has cracked down very hard on both the growers and
the traffickers.
With help provided by our Government—and this help includes helicopters
and other advanced equipment, and committing substantial resources of our
own—the Government of Mexico is undertaking the biggest and most effective
crop eradication program in its history. Thousands upon thousands of fields
have already been wiped out. And while many of these fields can and will be
replanted, the Government also plans for the first time to maintain a year
round eradication program. This is the only way that you can really stop the
growth of this into our country.
The efforts made on their side of the border have been very substantial and
they have been aided by what we have done on our own side through the
combined efforts of Federal, State, and local authorities. In particular, I would
like to compliment the law enforcement officials of Texas. The people in the
Federal Government tell me that they get maximum help and assistance from
your State as well as local officials. So, speaking for the Federal Government,
may I thank you and indicate our great appreciation.
Your people have done a fine job in helping to control the flow of illegal
drugs and they not only deserve your thanks but they deserve the appreciation
of many, many thousands of Americans throughout the other States of the
1059
