[511]
May 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
ter capability, a wiser judgment to make these decisions right here in Mission
Viejo than some bureaucrat on the banks of the Potomac.
In this Bicentennial Year, our challenge is to foster the basic appreciation we
have always had for the American home, the American family, the moderation
of the relationship of the government to the governed, and continued American
strength throughout the world.
In the first century of our great country, our government was devoted to the
establishment of a strong and stable and fair and equitable system of govern-
ment. It was a unique experiment in self-government by the people.
In the second century of our country, it was a century of industrial progress in
which America became the most powerful nation in the history of mankind. As
we became the most productive nation, we found that our growth created the
problems of bigness. In the process, the individual became dominated by huge
institutions of all kinds-mass government, mass labor, mass industry, and mass
education.
As I see the third century of our wonderful country, I see it as one in which
we return responsibility to the individual, to encourage all Americans to help
themselves. And as I travel around America it's easy to see most of us want
a renewed personal responsibility to each other and to the Nation as a whole as
active citizenry makes a vital nation. It may sound awfully trite, but we have
been letting Uncle Sam do it far, far too long. I'm for cutting out the unbearable
Washington redtape, rolling up our own sleeves and doing it for ourselves.
Some Americans have been disillusioned and some have become skeptical,
and I can understand it. But I have found, as I travel from one State to another,
that the great majority of us want to make things right in America. What we
want to do is best for our society and for our country. We want to live up to
that great heritage that our ancestors gave us, as a free and independent country
and free and independent people. In response to that desire I want to devote
my efforts to confidence and trust in our institutions, a task that must succeed
if we are to rebuild our faith in the future for our children, our grandchildren
and the country that we love so much.
We've made a good start. We will work together, you and I. What I prom-
ise you I will deliver. In return, I need your help, your simple strength, disci-
pline, maturity, truth.
Let me say this in conclusion: Certain things are temporary; some things are
permanent. In 200 years our beliefs have not changed in America. This is still
a country where the government serves and the people rule.
1670
