[529]
May 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
what I have proposed is right-to maintain the unsurpassed military capability
of the United States.
But now let me conclude with just one other comment. I said in August of
1974 we were going through a traumatic experience; confidence had been lost.
The Ford administration has been open, it's been candid, it's been forthright.
I will never promise more than I can deliver, and I will deliver everything that
I promise.
Yes, what do I see as we go down the years ahead for the next 4 years, but
more importantly, what do I see in America in the next century? I think Amer-
ica ought to be a country of individualism. We have the greatest form of gov
ernment in the history of mankind. We are the most productive nation in the
history of the world.
But I want your help and assistance to sustain a program that has brought
us from the depths of the recession to sustained recovery that will ensure that
runaway inflation never robs us again—our loved ones—and will reward those
who work hard and have saved during their lifetime.
Finally, I want to finish my most important job, as I said, the restoration of
trust in the Presidency of the United States. I will promise to maintain that
respect and decency that is so important for our Nation. I need your support
to ensure peace, prosperity, and trust for the future-the good, secure, satisfying
future that we owe to our children as well as our grandchildren. Americans
have always wanted a better life for our children than what it was for ourselves,
because life for us had been better than it was for our parents.
What do I see ahead for this great country? A strong, a confident America,
secure in a strength that cannot alone be counted in megatons, a nation re-
joicing in its blessings that cannot be eroded by inflation or by taxation. I see
an America where life is valued for its quality as well as its comfort, where the
individual is inviolate in his constitutional rights, where the government serves
and the people rule.
Thank you very, very kindly.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:20 p.m. at Ross-
moor, an adult community. In his opening remarks,
he referred to California State Senator John Nejedly,
Mayor Robert Schroder of Walnut Creek, Marguerite
Weisheimer, president of the board of directors,
Golden Rain Foundation, and Les Saswell, Ross
moor GOP chairman.
1732
