[373]
April 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
operation, and equipped with its own bureaucracy, chipping steadily away at the
Founding Fathers' system of shared responsibility and local control.
With the enactment of the revenue sharing program in 1972, the Congress
made an important and, I believe, historic break with this unwise and unhealthy
trend.
As the Republican leader of the House of Representatives, I was a staunch
supporter of the revenue sharing concept, and I have been proud of it ever since,
as I think Joe and John, as well as the Governor.
In the 4 years since the revenue sharing program actually began, State and
local governments, as well as States, have proven beyond any doubt whatsoever
the merit of local control over local concerns, and I congratulate all of you for
the job that you have done.
When you were put in charge, you proved and I knew that you could prove
that you know a lot more about what your States, your communities, your cities,
your parishes need, much more than the Washington bureaucracy does. That
bureaucracy in Washington, D.C., has been held to an absolute minimum in the
operation of revenue sharing. Only about one-eighth of 1 penny of every dollar
spent for revenue sharing goes to the Washington bureaucracy. That's an
amazing statistic, and it's a very encouraging sign that bureaucratic overhead
need not rob the taxpayer blind nor bind your cities, your States, your parishes
in a maze of redtape in order for a federally funded program to succeed.
Last April, a year ago, I proposed a 5-year, 9-month extension of the general
revenue sharing program. This proposal represented an increase of funding of
almost $1 billion, for a total of $39,850 million with $861,400,000, of that going
to the State of Louisiana-one-third to the State and two-thirds to the local units
of government.
A year ago, I urged the Congress to take prompt action on this proposal. Well,
just a few weeks ago, as Joe and John know, a House committee-I should say,
actually, a subcommittee-finally started marking up a revenue sharing bill.
They are still tinkering with it and putting in jeopardy the planning of 50
States and 39,000 local units of government throughout America.
I don't honestly see how you can establish your budget for the calendar year
1977 or the fiscal year that in many cases for communities around the country
actually begins on July 1.
Let me assure you of one thing: I intend to keep the pressure on the Congress
until they send me a revenue sharing bill that will do at least as good a job as the
one that expires December 31.
You will also be interested to know that in the last 20 months we have made
1234
