May 23
[509]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
509
Remarks at a Reception for Representatives of Agricultural
Organizations in Pendleton, Oregon. May 23, 1976
LET ME thank all of you for coming here not only for the meeting outside but
to have an opportunity to meet you personally and to say a very few words.
I can't express deeply enough my appreciation for what American agricul-
ture has done for our country. I know that we have had some ups and downs
in agriculture. I can remember when I first went to the Congress, back in
January of 1949. We had for the next 10 to 15 years—maybe longer-tremen-
dous surpluses that depressed your market; that resulted in the Department of
Agriculture, in effect, having too great a role in how you ran your farms and
how you handled your crops.
The programs that have been in effect for the last several years, I think, are a
major step forward in giving agriculture the opportunity to do what they do so
well—to produce—and to permit us as a country to maximize our exports
overseas.
Let me tell you how significant your contribution is. In 1973 the United States
paid about $7 to $8 billion for foreign oil. Last year, the United States paid
for foreign oil about the same amount in quantity, but $35 billion—from $7 or $8
billion up to $35 billion.
If we had not had the exports of American agriculture that we have had the
last 2 or 3 years, this country would be in very, very sad economic condition, be-
cause the expansion of American exports abroad—corn and wheat and soybeans
and all of the other crops—if we hadn't had the benefit of your hard work, your
skill, and your productivity, the United States would have been in very, very
serious condition right now economically.
So, although many Americans don't understand or don't, therefore, appreci-
ate your contribution, as President, on behalf of them, I want to thank you,
because America is better today because of what you here in Oregon and what
others have done—in North Dakota, South Dakota, Texas, Oklahoma, Washing-
ton. The great productivity in wheat and corn and soybeans has been a signifi-
cant factor, if not one of the major factors, in the ability of America to turn the
economy around in the last 12 months.
So, I thank you, and 215 million other Americans thank you from the bottom
of our hearts.
I would be glad to answer any questions.
1665
