May 25
[523]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
for domestic programs or whether we, with our allies, should brace ourselves to
bear a long-range cost of preserving peace and freedom throughout the world.
Although I disagreed with President Truman about most other issues in that
campaign and denounced the Washington establishment at every opportunity,
I supported him on such important international issues as the rebuilding of
the Western Europe, the establishment of NATO, and the resistance to the
Soviet threat.
Let me tell you how I reached that conviction, and I still hold this situation as
America's role in building a safer and saner world. In 1934, as Hitler began
his rapid rise to power, I finished the University of Michigan torn between my
longstanding ambition to study law and making some money playing profes-
sional football. The first time I ever saw the Pacific Ocean was when I came to
California to play in the Shrine East-West game on New Year's Day 1935. I got
my first look at the Atlantic Ocean a few months later when I got a job as an
assistant football coach at Yale University. I figured I could go to Yale Law
School in my spare time.
But, they said that was unheard of, and it took me 2 years to convince the au-
thorities that I could do both. Between the law library and the locker room, we
talked about the wars, the rumors of wars that were going on in Europe as well
as in Asia, and some of us believed Wendell Willkie's warning that America
was a part of one world and should stand with the forces of freedom and decency
if they were to survive.
I had just hung up my shingle and my Yale Law School diploma back in
Michigan when the staggering news of Pearl Harbor turned all of our arguments
into action. As it did for so many other Americans, California provided my last
liberty on the way to the Pacific, and California was the first welcome sight at
home at the end of World War II.
Many in
my generation did not come back, but we who did were determined
to build a peace in a world that would endure for our children as well as our
grandchildren. We knew it was up to the United States because only through
our sustained strength-military, economic, and moral strength-could there
be a chance of lasting peace. So, I ran for Congress in 1948 on that policy of
responsibility and perseverance and strength for the peace, and fortunately, I
prevailed. And I run for President of the United States in 1976 on that same
policy, and I intend to win.
I know that you want to hear specifics instead of generalities and facts instead
of frustrations. The foreign policies of this country, in my judgment, ought not
to be characterized as Truman policy, Eisenhower policy, or Ford policies;
1705
