[560]
June 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
ing campaign rhetoric now and does not truly believe in the things he says? You
also implied there would be guerrilla warfare if Reagan became President and
stopped the Panama Canal negotiations.
THE PRESIDENT. Sometimes in the heat of a political campaign, statements
are made that on cool reflection candidates wish they hadn't said.
MR. HERMAN. Are you referring to yours or his?
THE PRESIDENT. I am referring to several that have been made by my opponent
in recent weeks. And certainly if a person becomes President he has to be more
judicious, more careful in what he says and how he says it and when he says
it. And I think when you get in that Oval Office, Miss Thomas, it does make
you far more responsible than you are when you are out on the political hustings.
SCHOOL DESEGREGATION AND BUSING
[6.] MR. HERMAN. In a recent interview you volunteered-or in answer to
a question, I guess—some information about your plans for alternatives to court-
ordered school busing. Could you explain them in somewhat more detail than
they were explained, as I read them. They seemed a little indefinite to me, or are
they still in that stage?
The President. I think there are three points we have to make before we
discuss busing:
Number one, this administration will uphold all constitutional rights of any
individual in this country, including the rights under the 14th amendment.
Number two, this administration is totally dedicated to quality education.
Number three, this administration will carry out the decisions of the Supreme
Court. I took an oath of office to do so, and I will continue to do so.
Now, we have found, or I believe that court-ordered, forced busing to achieve
racial balance is not the best way to necessarily protect individual rights on the
one hand or to achieve quality education on the other. Therefore, starting back
in November of 1975, I asked the Attorney General and other members of my
Cabinet to see if we couldn't put together something that would be better
than the remedy that has been used by some district courts in trying to solve
the very difficult problem of protecting constitutional rights and, at the same
time, achieving quality education.
Within the last 2 weeks the Attorney General has decided not to intervene in
the Boston case for good reasons that he, as Attorney General, decided, and I
support him. On the other hand the Attorney General is seeking a particular
1796
