May 11
[457]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
number of beds at each facility. These decisions will be made after further
review and analysis.
Over 1 million people are served annually by Veterans Administration hos-
pitals, nursing homes, and domiciliary facilities. They deserve to continue to
receive care of the highest quality and the latest in medical research. This
requires adequate hospital facilities. The actions I am announcing today reflect
my commitment that the Nation's veterans be assured of the finest in quality
medical care.
457
Statement on Signing the Federal Election Campaign Act
Amendments of 1976. May 11, 1976
AFTER extensive consultation and review, I have decided that the Federal
Campaign Act Amendments of 1976 warrant my signature.
I am therefore signing those amendments into law this afternoon. I will also
be submitting to the Senate for its advice and consent the nominations of six per-
sons to serve as members of the reconstituted Commission.
Shortly after the Supreme Court ruled on January 30 that the Federal Election
Commission was invalid as then constituted, I made it clear that I favored a
simple reconstitution of the Commission because efforts to amend and reform
the law could cause massive confusion in election campaigns that had already
started.
The Congress, however, was unwilling to accept my straightforward pro-
posal and instead became bogged down in a controversy that has now extended
for more than 3 months.
In the process, efforts were made to add several provisions to the law which
I thought were thoroughly objectionable. These suggested provisions would
have further tipped the balance of political power to a single party and to a
single element within that party. I could not accept those provisions under
any circumstances and I so communicated my views to various Members of the
Congress.
Since that time, to my gratification, those features of the bill have been modi-
fied so as to avoid in large measure the objections I had raised.
Weighing the merits of this legislation, I have found that the amendments
as now drafted command widespread, bipartisan support in both Houses of
1529
