[368]
April 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
will go to jail for a substantial period of time. Only then will the risk of ap-
prehension be a deterrent rather than just another cost of doing business.
Accordingly, I will submit to the Congress this week legislation which will
require mandatory minimum prison sentences for persons convicted of traffick-
ing in heroin and similar narcotic drugs. Sentences under this legislation would
be at least three years for a first offense and at least six years for subsequent
offenses or for selling to a minor.
I want to emphasize that the purpose of this proposal is not to impose vindic-
tive punishment but to protect society from those who prey upon it and to deter
others who might be tempted to sell drugs. Considering the terrible human toll
that drug addiction takes and the extent to which it contributes to more and
more crime, it is a matter of high priority that Congress make our laws more
effective in curbing drug traffic.
Another serious problem with current Federal law is that even the most no-
torious drug traffickers are usually released on bail soon after arrest. The bail is
often small and the profits from drug trafficking are large, so raising and then
forfeiting the bail is just another cost of doing business. A 1974 Justice Depart-
ment study shows that 48 percent-nearly one out of two-of a sample of indi-
viduals arrested for trafficking in narcotics were implicated in post-arrest drug
trafficking while out on bail. Other studies show that approximately one-fourth
of all bail-jumpers in drug cases are aliens who were caught smuggling drugs into
the country. These offenders simply flee to their homelands upon posting bail.
There, they serve as walking advertisements for international traffickers attempt-
ing to recruit other couriers.
This, too, is wrong. Therefore, in addition to asking Congress to establish
mandatory minimum sentences, I shall submit to Congress legislation that would
enable judges to deny bail if a defendant arrested for trafficking heroin or dan-
gerous drugs is found (1) to have previously been convicted of a drug felony;
(2) to be presently free on parole; (3) to be a non-resident alien: (4) to have
been arrested in possession of a false passport; or (5) to be a fugitive or previously
convicted of having been a fugitive.
Next, the Federal government must act to take the easy profits out of drug
selling.
We know that tremendous amounts of money are illegally taken out of the
country each day, either to purchase drugs or to transfer profits made by selling
drugs to safe and secret bank accounts abroad. To prevent this money from being
smuggled out of the country, I will ask Congress to grant to the U.S. Customs
Service the authority to search persons suspected of smuggling money out of the
1220
