[362]
April 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
Now, the third alternative is, for example, you can increase the earning limita-
tion—that's one alternative-or you cannot increase benefits—that is another
alternative.
So, the truth is there aren't any good answers. But I think in all honesty-at
least I felt the most forthright, the most candid approach was the one I sug-
gested, and I do not believe that the burden to meet this problem is onerous and
unbearable. The other ones, I think, are a sort of a con game, and I don't believe
in that kind of operation.
TAX REFORM PROPOSALS
[4.] Q. Mr. President, I would like to know what specific proposals you have
in the area of tax reform.
THE PRESIDENT. Tax reform?
Q. Yes, sir.
THE PRESIDENT. The best tax reform that I know is what I proposed in Janu-
ary of 1975 which provided for a $28 billion tax reduction at the Federal level,
75 percent of it to go to individual taxpayers and 25 percent to go to business.
The 75 percent of it to go to individual taxpayers would mean that we would
have an opportunity to adjust the tax rates primarily in what we call the middle-
income group. They, over the last 10 years, as far as Federal income taxes are
concerned, have gotten short shrift. They proportionately have had to pay more
compared to others, either those in the more wealthy brackets or those in the
more disadvantaged brackets.
People between $9,000 and $25,000 in the last 10 years have really been
squeezed, and under the tax proposal that I made at that time we would have
given a greater percentage of the tax relief to those in that bracket. And one
way I recommended was to increase the personal exemption from $750 per per-
son to $1,000, and I think that is the right thing to do.
Now, as far as business is concerned, 25 percent of the recommendations came
in that category. I believe that if we're going to provide the kind of active econ-
omy, if we're going to give the stimulant to the economy, if we are going to pro-
vide the incentive to business to provide more jobs, that's what we want. We had
to give to business some added incentives, such as the investment tax credit, on
a permanent basis. We made some recommendations also that would give to
business an opportunity to move into areas of high unemployment more rapidly
so that they could get a quicker writeoff or a more rapid amortization.
There were several other specific recommendations as far as business was
concerned to give them this incentive. These are the kinds of tax reforms that I
1
1198
