May 22
[503]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
503
Exchange With Reporters on Arrival at Portland, Oregon.
May 22, 1976
GOOD AFTERNOON. It's great to be in Portland. We had a really wonderful
stop on our first in Oregon, and we are looking forward to the same opportu-
nities here in Portland, and Pendleton tomorrow.
The reason I'm here is, frankly, to set forth the message that I think is impor-
tant, the critical one in this campaign. The message is that President Ford has
achieved the peace and has maintained it and expects to for the next 4 years.
President Ford has turned the economy around so that we are now on a surging
upswing from a recession to the kind of prosperity that America needs. And
thirdly, President Ford has restored confidence and trust in the White House.
I believe that is what the American people want, and I'm here to ask the help
and assistance of the people of Oregon.
I'll be glad to answer a few questions.
REPORTER. Presumably you are going to do rather well here.
THE PRESIDENT. Gee, that is good news. I like to hear that. [Laughter]
Q. Have you reversed your views on Reagan's ability to beat a President in
the primaries?
The President. Well, we had a good day this last Tuesday with 65 percent of
the vote in Michigan and 58 percent of the vote in Maryland. We think we have
restored the momentum, and we are doing our very best to keep the same kind
of momentum going here in Oregon and the other five States that have the
primaries. We're reasonably optimistic about what's going to happen next Tues-
day in all six States.
Q. Do you think you will win in all six States?
The President. Well, I don't like to quantify something. I think we will do
reasonably well, and we are certainly going to make a big effort.
Q. What about the action of the uncommitted New York delegation?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we understand that the New York delegation is meet-
ing some time this weekend. That was done on their own, and if they take the
action, we will get a good bunch of delegates that have been uncommitted that
will come into the President Ford column.
The Pennsylvania delegation is meeting today. I can't forecast with any cer-
tainty what they will do, but I have a lot of friends in that delegation.
Q. President Ford, would you say that those uncommitted delegates are
largely committed to you?
1641
