[333]
April 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
I have read about West Texas State University, and back a long time ago at
the University of Michigan, I played a little football and have had a long and
continuing interest in athletics. And I still read the sports page first because
you have got a 50-50 chance of being right on the sports page. [Laughter ] On the
front page, those odds change. But anyhow, I have watched, you know, the
progress of those that were in the top 20 or top 10 in basketball. Michigan
sneaked up there and almost made it, but you had a good season, you are going
to do better next year. Good luck to you.
As I travel, I make a very determined effort to come to college and university
campuses, because I think the future of this country is among our young people.
I have a lot of faith, I have tremendous belief in what the younger generation
of this country is going to do in the years ahead.
I know that a period of time over the last 10 years there was some lack of rap-
port between the younger generation and some of our older generations.
But as I travel and visit college campuses around the country, I find that there is
a strong belief among younger people today that our form of government, that
our form of economic development, that our aims and ambitions, our hopes and
aspirations are what appeals to them, because America, as you look at what
we have and what we have gone through and what we can expect, by any stand-
ard, comparing us with any other country, America is a great country. And you
will make it even greater. We know it and you know it, and it will be a country
that is better than anything we have had and better than anything we can com-
pare it with.
We have gone through a tough period. Twenty months ago when I had the
honor and privilege of becoming President, we were suffering some severe eco-
nomic problems, inflation virtually out of control. We were sliding in at that
period, even then, into the worst economic conditions this country has had in
40 years. Employment was beginning to drop, and unemployment was begin-
ning to rise. Many people said the answer to our problems was to load up the
Federal Government with thousands and thousands and thousands of more
employees, to spend ourselves really, virtually into bankruptcy. There were
these critics who said we were going to have unemployment of 10 percent.
There were those who were, as doomsayers, saying that we were going to have
a depression like we had in the thirties, and some of us can remember it very
vividly.
But the American people didn't panic. The American people didn't buy these
quick fixes that look good on paper but hadn't worked, never will work. The
American people believed in the free enterprise system. The American people
1100
