[333]
April 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
Now, I should add a postscript. I suspect that many people in this audience
tonight are familiar with what we call instances of catastrophic illness where a
person in a family, old or young, or a neighbor, a friend, a relative, or even in
your own family, has suffered tragic illness where the costs are unbelievable;
they wipe out the resources. It is my feeling that under Medicaid or Medicare
some 3 million people who have had that tragedy ought to be covered for
what we call catastrophic illness care. I favor that, but it is a very limited number
of cases; but they are the saddest most tragic in our society.
So, I have recommended that, but that is a far cry from total coverage of what
we call national health insurance. We have an obligation to find a mechanism
to take care of those who have catastrophic illness, and I will push for it. I will
fight for it because I think it is right, and I think it is justified. But other than
that, no, at this stage, anyhow, any national health insurance program.
E. HOWARD HUNT'S PETITION FOR PARDON
[5.] Q. Mr. President, I understand that you will be receiving a petition
from E. Howard Hunt next month concerning a pardon. How do you intend
to reply to Mr. Hunt's appeal?
THE PRESIDENT. I am not familiar with that petition. That petition will be
handled just like any other request. It will go through the Pardon Attorney's
Office in the Department of Justice. It is a well-established office that has years
and years of experience in handling pardon requests. If and when they make a
recommendation to me from the Office of the Pardon Attorney in the Depart-
ment of Justice, of course, I will consider it. But for me to prejudge that without
having their recommendations, I think, would be unfair and improper. I can
only say he, along with everybody else, will get the same consideration. And
if it comes to my desk, we will give it the same consideration any other person
in our society would get.
FARM POLICY
[6.] Q. Mr. President, quite frankly, I am nervous as a cat at a dog show.
[Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. So was I when I came in.
Q. I am from Memphis, Texas, and I am from the agriculture part of the
country, as we are in the whole State. And I would like to ask you what you feel
about the farm programs or what type of farm programs might you favor
in the next Congress?
The President. Well, during the 25-plus years that I served in the Congress,
most of the time the Congress perpetuated those farm programs where we had
1104
