June 3
[553]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
our cultural heritage. The 16 States that you mentioned are deeply indebted to
their Spanish background. Those of us who were not fortunate enough to come
from those 16 States feel somewhat neglected. [Laughter]
Explorers from your country, Your Majesty, sailing under the Spanish flag
discovered this continent. Among the people of Europe who risked their lives
to come to the aid of our newborn Republic were gallant Spanish soldiers as
well as Spanish sailors. The early Spanish explorers left a very deep and perma-
nent cultural imprint on America. They brought printing presses and universi-
ties to the New World.
We see the Spanish heritage in St. Augustine, the oldest permanent European
settlement in America, in countless missions in the Southwestern part of our
country, in regional festivals and, yes, even in rodeos. Spanish influence is re-
flected in our culture and even the common law of some of our Southwestern
American States. Throughout America millions of citizens speak the Spanish
language. Many of our television and radio stations transmit the language as
well as the heritage of Spain.
In this century, for nearly 25 years Spain and the United States have stood
together to meet the challenges confronting the Western World. We have built
a strong and very harmonious relationship. The importance of our relationship,
I think, is reflected in the recently concluded Treaty of Friendship and Coopera-
tion. This treaty recognizes the important contributions of Spain to the defense
of the West. It opens the way to the improved defenses and our cooperation be-
tween ourselves.
This treaty also marks the increasing cooperation between the Spanish and
the American peoples in a growing number of fields ranging from urban devel-
opment to energy to the arts to agriculture as well as to education.
As we pay tribute to the past and to the present, we look to the future. In
man's exploration of the unknown we have moved from the age of the sail and
horseback to the age of space.
Your Majesty's interest in America's space program is well know by all of us
in our country. It is indicative not only of the common interests that we share
but of the forward-looking qualities you have brought to the leadership of
Spain. These qualities will serve both of our countries very well.
And let us build on our bilateral relationships and work together to increase
the ties of friendship as well as cooperation between the United States and
Spain.
I have no doubt of the increasingly important role Spain will play in the
1783
