May 5
[426]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Also, last year 25 Sickle Cell Screening and Education Clinics provided in-
formation to more than one million persons, screened approximately 233,000
individuals, counselled more than 16,000 and referred many for appropriate
medical care.
This activity is extremely important because the sickle cell trait is found in
approximately two and one-half million black people. Although the sickle cell
trait is primarily a healthy state wherein one carries genes for both sickle hemo-
globin and normal hemoglobin, the blood disorder occurs as a result of the
presence of genes for sickle hemoglobin inherited from both parents.
The National Institutes of Health is conducting intense investigations into
the mechanisms of sickling in sickle cell anemia and subsequent complications,
as well as carrying out therapy trials to alter the sickling process.
We must continue to push ahead for new knowledge and methodologies for
the diagnosis, control and treatment of sickle cell anemia, as well as carrying on
and improving existing screening and counseling, information, and education
and training activities.
The progress made in the last year is heartening and sickle cell anemia pro-
gram activities will continue to be of the highest priority. I am pleased to pre-
sent this report to the Congress.
The White House,
May 5, 1976.
NOTE: The report, entitled "Third Annual Report on
the Administration of the National Sickle Cell
Anemia Control Act (P.L. 92-294)," covers the
GERALD R. FORD
period July 1, 1974 to June 30, 1975 (14 pp. plus
appendixes).
426
Remarks to Participants in the Conference on Ethnicity and
Neighborhood Revitalization. May 5, 1976
Mayor Cianci, Mayor Perk, Monsignor Baroni, members of the administration
and guests:
Obviously, it's a great pleasure and privilege to welcome you to the White
House and the Rose Garden this morning. This conference has been called to
give new insights into some very, very old questions: how to maintain, how to
strengthen the ties of community and neighborhood within our society.
1467
