[488]
May 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
integrity; an America where life is valued for its content as well as its com-
forts, and where government serves but the people rule.
If you share that vision of America which I have, I urge you to go to the
polls next Tuesday, join with me in making this Bicentennial Year-not only
in Saginaw Township but in all of the other 39 governmental areas in this great
county-not only a year of celebration but of determination where, once again,
we show the world that American dream which we all have had in our life-
time is best achieved when we are wide awake and where we, as Americans, are
moving forward.
Think for a moment, if you will, some 200-plus years ago, some 3 million
Americans fought for freedom in some 13 poor, poor Colonies. They took on a
government 1,000 or more miles away, but they had the courage and the vision
and the determination, and they won that battle for what we have today. And
they gave us in this country the greatest Constitution, the most wonderful docu-
ment for the governing of people in the history of mankind.
We believe in it. We can make it work. And the Bicentennial Commission
[American Revolution Bicentennial Administration] and all the things that
they are doing here in Saginaw Township and elsewhere give us the light, the
hope, the vision for a better and better America.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:39 p.m. at the
Saginaw Township Bicentennial Park at Sherwood
Elementary School. In his opening remarks, he
referred to Representative Flford A. C-derberg,
George Olson. Saginaw Township supervisor,
Thomas Ferguson, chairman, and Richard Ken-
nedy, vice chairman, Saginaw Township Bicen-
tennial Committee; and Rev. Paul R. Beck, pastor,
Good Shepherd Lutheran Church of Saginaw.
489
Remarks of Welcome to President Valéry Giscard d'Estaing of
France. May 17, 1976
Mr. President, Madam Giscard d'Estaing, ladies and gentlemen:
On behalf of the American people, Mrs. Ford and I are very delighted to
welcome you to the White House.
Mr. President, you have come to the United States at a very historic time-
the celebration of the 200th anniversary of our independence. Your visit is a
very special and a very fitting gesture by France, which two centuries ago
sent her sons as well as her treasure to help an infant republic win its
independence.
1614
