June 4
[558]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
1
(EPA). They will work to reduce the loan processing and certification time,
clarify and promote the purpose of the program, and to provide necessary tech-
nical assistance.
I am also requesting that the EPA devote special attention to pollution regu-
lations which the small business community believes excessively burdensome
or inequitable. The EPA has already promulgated less stringent effluent guide-
lines for small plants in several industries—including dairies, electroplating,
leather, seafoods, textiles, meat processing and rendering.
These actions should help to alleviate the adverse impact of pollution regu-
lations on small business finances. I hope that the Congress will recognize that
this problem can be corrected without resort to the extraordinary authorization
of Federal guarantees for tax-exempt pollution control bonds. I urge the Con-
gress to review this guarantee program promptly along with an examination
of the growth of industrial revenue financing—an issue which is of much
concern to municipal finance experts.
My second concern is with section 112, which makes all small agricultural
enterprises eligible for financing and management assistance from the SBA.
Despite widespread congressional concern about overlapping and conflicting
Federal programs, this new SBA program is quite similar to that of the Depart-
ment of Agriculture. The Department of Agriculture, through the Farmers
Home Administration and the Farm Credit Administration have ample legal
authority to extend financial assistance to small agricultural enterprises. I am
directing the SBA and the Department of Agriculture to insure that the overlap
inherent in their credit programs minimized.
The legislative history of S. 2498 indicates that Congress is concerned with
the difficulty which small agricultural enterprises often have in obtaining loans
from the Farmers Home Administration. I share this concern. However, I
believe that small agricultural enterprises can be assisted better through needed
amendments to the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act which
would:
-provide Federal credit assistance for meeting pollution control require-
ments, and
-double the loan limits for farm operating and ownership loans.
I urge the Congress to enact H.R. 10078 and S. 3114 which would make these
required changes in the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act and
to reconsider the necessity for expanding SBA authority to finance small farms
and ranches.
1791
