April 10
[327]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
markets—or as Earl says, he's going overseas to drum up some business for the
most prolific producers of food and fiber in the history of mankind, and he's
a real advocate of what all of you truly represent.
I think all of you know that to a large degree, your success depends upon our
country's success. When your country has economic problems, so do you. When
your country has good relations with foreign nations, so do you.
The real decision that you and your fellow Americans will be making this
year is whether or not America is on the right course for the future. The evidence
strongly suggests that we are on the right course.
After suffering the worst economic problems this Nation has faced in 40
years, America is on the road to a new prosperity. Employment is going up,
unemployment is going down. Sales investments, industrial production are all
going up while inflation and the rate of growth in Federal spending are going
down. In fact, they have been cut in half in the past 12 months. In addition, our
balance of trade is the best on record.
Every single leading economic indicator today is a sign of progress and a sign
of hope for America. We have pursued some very pragmatic, commonsense
policies in the past 20 months that stress the revitalization of the private sector
rather than relying on big government to cure our economic ills and increase its
control over our lives. We must never forget that a government big enough to
give us everything we want is a government big enough to take from us every-
thing we have.
My policies in the past 20 months have reflected that basic truth, and they
have worked. They are still working, and we have a lot more progress in store
in the months and years ahead. This is a promise that I can make with total
confidence. And the watchword of this administration has always been to
promise no more than we can deliver and deliver everything we promise.
Finally, we are pursuing the same kind of commonsense policies, internation-
ally as well as domestically. America is at peace, and we are pursuing a policy
of peace through strength, and it has been successful. Our strength is unsur-
passed by any other nation on Earth, and let me assure you that I intend to keep
it that way in the future.
Our military capability is fully sufficient to deter aggression, to keep the
peace, and to protect our national security. But strength involves more than
military might. A nation's real power is measured more completely by consider-
ing a combination of its military, agricultural, industrial, technological, and
moral strength.
1081
