| 444]
May 8
Public Papers of the Presidents
ing the 4 years that you have been in college. Certainly those 4 years have been
among the most traumatic and the most trving in this history of the United
States.
Since you came here as freshmen, one of our longest and most divisive wars has
wound to a very tragic conclusion. We have experienced the worst recession since
the Dust Bowl days of the 1930's. We have suffered the worst inflation in our
peacetime history. And a scandal in high office cast a shadow over the Presi-
dency itself. Nor did any of these tragic events occur in a vacuum. They followed
directly from a decade that was filled with even greater social unrest and social
tension. Violence, campus riots, civil disturbances, mounting distrust-all of
these were an unhappy legacy of the 1960's.
By the time that you came to college, some of our most influential citizens
throughout the length and breadth of our country seemed to be losing faith in
America. In "The Greening of America," a book that swept many, many college
campuses early in the 1970's, author Charles Reich asserted that, "For most
Americans work is mindless, exhausting, boring, servile and hateful. Our life
activities have become plastic, vicarious, false to our genuine needs." "The
Nation," concluded a well-known historian, "is essentially evil and the evil can
be exorcized only by turning the system upside down." A leading newspaper
columnist said it more pointedly. "American life doesn't work any more."
Fortunately, the great majority of our people never gave up, never lost faith
in themselves or in this great country.
In the 4 years that you have been here at the university, the Nation has not
only persevered but more importantly it has prevailed. As you leave today to
enter the mainstream of the working world or perhaps to continue your studies,
I would suggest to you that the United States is far, far different, as we see it
this morning, from the world that you knew when you came here as a
freshman.
The changes are perhaps more evident in areas such as our economy. For
millions upon millions of our citizens, the fears of inflation and unemployment.
so strong just a year ago, are now receding. No one believes that we have fully
cured our economic ailments, but the patient is mending rapidly, and there is
every reason to be more confident for the future.
Progress can be found in many other areas. We are at peace. Our friendships
in Europe and in the Pacific are showing renewed vitality. As you leave this
university today, you become a part of the first generation in more than 30 years
that can graduate with a choice rather than a mandate to be drafted into the
armed services. And, too, our farm exports to the rest of the world are at record
1506
