July 4
[645]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
The framers of the Constitution feared a central government that was too
strong, as many Americans rightly do today. The framers of the Constitution,
after their experience under the Articles, feared a central government that was
too weak, as many Americans rightly do today. They spent days studying all
of the contemporary governments of Europe and concluded with Dr. Franklin
that all contained the seeds of their own destruction. So the framers built some-
thing new, drawing upon their English traditions, on the Roman Republic, on
the uniquely American institution of the town meeting. To reassure those
who felt the original Constitution did not sufficiently spell out the unalienable
rights of the Declaration, the First United States Congress added—and the
States ratified-the first 10 amendments, which we call the Bill of Rights.
Later, after a tragic, fraternal war, those guarantees were expanded to in-
clude all Americans. Later still, voting rights were assured for women and
for younger citizens 18 to 21 years of age.
It is good to know that in our own lifetime we have taken part in the
growth of freedom and in the expansion of equality which began here so long
ago. This union of corrected wrongs and expanded rights has brought the
blessings of liberty to the 215 million Americans, but the struggle for life,
liberty, and the pursuit of happiness is never truly won. Each generation of
Americans, indeed of all humanity, must strive to achieve these aspirations
anew. Liberty is a living flame to be fed, not dead ashes to be revered, even in
a Bicentennial Year.
It is fitting that we ask ourselves hard questions even on a glorious day like
today. Are the institutions under which we live working the way they should?
Are the foundations laid in 1776 and 1789 still strong enough and sound
enough to resist the tremors of our times? Are our God-given rights secure,
our hard-won liberties protected?
The very fact that we can ask these questions, that we can freely examine
and criticize our society, is cause for confidence itself. Many of the voices raised
in doubt 200 years ago served to strengthen and improve the decisions finally
made.
The American adventure is a continuing process. As one milestone is passed,
another is sighted. As we achieve one goal—a longer lifespan, a literate popu-
lation, a leadership in world affairs—we raise our sights.
As we begin our third century, there is still so much to be done. We must
increase the independence of the individual and the opportunity of all Ameri-
cans to attain their full potential. We must ensure each citizen's right to privacy.
We must create a more beautiful America, making human works conform to
1969
