April 10
[325]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
one of their forms, and they have specific instructions from the White House
to reduce the forms that they require the American people to fill out by 10 per-
cent by July 1. And we have outside task forces going into every department,
so that it's not self-analysis, it's a group of fresh individuals who are looking at
their regulations to make sure, to make certain that all of these obsolete, ob-
solescent regulations can be junked, and there are many of them.
One final question that I am sure is raised: "How does the United States
stand around the world?" Number one, the United States is unsurpassed in mili-
tary capability. And when you put together our unsurpassed capability militarily
with our tremendous U.S. industrial capacity that is superior to any nation, and
when you put together with that our unbelievably superior agricultural produc-
tivity and our scientific and technological superiority, then you have a package
that without question of a doubt makes the United States number one compared
to any other nation in the history of the world, period.
And then there is one final ingredient that I think makes a difference to all
of us. In the United States of America, we have a great devotion to spiritual,
religious, deep-seated convictions about what we can do and who we believe in
and what our feelings are toward something greater than we, greater than any-
thing. And that spiritual religious conviction gives us the inspiration to keep
going, to make this freedom secure and this liberty positive and certain and to
make America what we want as our dream-the America that our forefathers
gave us but improved and added to and just made better by all of us.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:03 a.m. in the Gold
Room at the Fairmont Hotel. He was introduced by
Senator John G. Tower, chairman of the Texas
President Ford Committee.
325
The President's News Conference of
April 10, 1976
GOOD MORNING. Won't you all sit down, please.
We had a great day in Texas yesterday. One regret—I wish I could have stayed
and watched the Rangers ¹ win that ball game last night. It must have been a
real fine game-11 innings, excellent. You all loved it in Texas, didn't you?
1 The Texas Rangers major league baseball team.
1065
