April 14
[340]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
ing process in SALT II. I am not going to abandon that effort. I think that is a
constructive effort. I can't forecast that we will reach an agreement, but when
you look at the added expenditures, the added weapons systems that will be
needed if we don't get a SALT II agreement, I think it is the responsible action
for the President to try and put a lid on nuclear weapon systems in the strategic
field. We will work on it. There is no time schedule for it, but it is certainly high
on the agenda.
We will continue in the international field to try and strengthen our NATO
alliance, to increase our influence and strength in the Pacific with Japan and our
other allies in that area.
We have a lot to do, and we are not going to let political campaigning take a
higher priority. Those jobs must be done first, and they will be, by me, in the
remaining time of this administration, up until January 20.
MR. PHILLIPS. We thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you very much, Warren.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:12 p.m. in the Rose Garden at the White House.
340
Remarks at the Swearing In of Thomas S. Gates, Jr.,
as Ambassador to the People's Republic of
China. April 14, 1976
Ambassador Gates, Mrs. Gates, and your lovely family, Secretary Kissinger, the
Vice President, Secretary Rumsfeld, Ambassador Scranton, General Scowcroft,
Director Bush, and I better be sure to mention my wife, Betty:
Let me welcome all of you to this ceremony, conferring on Tom Gates the
rank of Ambassador. As he assumes the position of our Chief of Liaison Office
in Peking, this is a measure of the importance, Ambassador Han, that we attach
to the growing relationship with the People's Republic of China.
Tom is inheriting a well-established tradition of excellence in this new posi-
tion, a tradition exemplified so well by his predecessors, Ambassador David Bruce
and George Bush.
The process of normalizing relations with the People's Republic of China, in
which Ambassador Gates will play a very vital role, is now well underway. Our
two countries have differences which neither side attempts to hide, but we also
share many, many important interests which provide the foundation for a dura-
ble and growing relationship.
1129
