May 3
[420]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
ends July 1 or June 30, I recommended $2,200 million—$1,500 million in mili-
tary assistance and the $700 million in economic assistance for Israel. For the
next fiscal year, which begins October 1, I recommended a billion dollars in
military assistance for Israel and $600 million for economic assistance. So for
a 25-month period, because we have a transitional quarter in there, because
we're going from one fiscal year to another, I recommended $4,300 million for
military and economic assistance to Israel. That's the most any President has
ever recommended for the State of Israel.
Now, the big controversy, the big controversy comes because some people
allege that there was a pledge to give an additional $500 million for 3 months.
I never gave that pledge to anybody, and I'm the only one in a position who
can give that in this Government at the present time.
I happen to think because every adviser that I have, whether they're military
assistance advisers or economic advisers, they tell me that the amount that I
have recommended, which does not include the $500 million for the transitional
quarter, was fully adequate for the economic and military security and survival
of Israel.
So, on the basis of the advice given me by experts, I think $4,300 million in
a 25-month period is pretty good support for the State of Israel.
SALE OF AIRCRAFT TO EGYPT
[4.] Q. Thank you. I have one other question. Also, I'd like to ask you what
is your stand on sending arms to Egypt to be used against Israel?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think the way you put it is not the accurate way to
describe the situation.
Q. This is the question that was given to me.
THE PRESIDENT. As all of you know, the State of Egypt under President Sadat
has taken some very strong and, I think, dramatic action in breaking off their
economic but more importantly their military dependence on the Soviet Union.
This is a great step forward for peace and stability in the Middle East.
Now, for many, many years, starting under Mr. Nasser and for a few years
under President Sadat, the Soviet Union was supplying massive arms to the
State of Egypt. President Sadat has decided he doesn't want to be dependent
on the Soviet Union anymore. He wants to be free to deal with the United
States or anybody else, and it's my judgment that this is a breakthrough for
peace and stability in the Middle East. And the real issue at this time is whether
or not the United States Government should sell six C-130 aircraft, which are
transports, at a cost of $49 million.
1453
