[529]
May 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
roll, it was my feeling that a better approach would be to give a shot in the arm to
our private enterprise system, to give tax relief to business so it could expand and
could modernize, increase production.
I thought it was a far wiser policy to give tax relief to individuals rather
than to add to the deficit by more Federal spending, and the net result was in
1975 we had a tax decrease, both for business as well as for individuals. And
the net result was that the private enterprise system, that great, great segment
of our society, responded.
Where are we today? Well, inflation, instead of being at 12 percent or higher,
as it was in August of 1974, it is now, for the first 4 months of 1976, at 3 percent
or less, and the net result is that we have cut the rate of inflation by 75 percent,
and I am very proud of that achievement.
At the same time, we have been trying to stimulate the economy so that in
the private sector, where five out of the six jobs in America exist anyhow, it
could absorb those losses that we had in early 1975.
The confidence of the American people returned because we didn't panic, we
didn't capitulate, and the consequence is that in the last 12 months, since we
were at the bottom of the depth of that recession, we have added 3,300,000 more
jobs-700,000 more jobs in the last month. And as of last month, 87,400,000
Americans are on the job-an alltime record of employment in this great
country, and we should be proud of it.
As I said, it wasn't easy to deal with the Congress. Fortunately, I know a little
bit about how they operate it and how they should operate and how they
shouldn't operate. So, when they started sending all these big spending bills
down to the White House, I warned them, I said don't do it. We're going to
veto them. So, they sent them down and we vetoed 49 of those bills; 42 of them
have been sustained by the responsible Members of the Congress. And the net
result is the taxpayers of this country have saved $13 billion, and we ought to be
proud of that, too.
I am glad to see that one of my old colleagues in the House of Representatives,
Al Bell, is here. He's a good friend, and he served well in his responsibilities in
the Congress. Al, it's nice to see you here.
But let me add that if they send down-and I have told these old friends of
mine, Democrats and Republicans, the only way you can prevail with them is to
talk straight and to let them know if they do this, this is going to happen-
I said, fellows, you send down any more of those big budget-busting spend-
ing bills, I will veto them again and again and again. I think they have learned
their lesson.
1730
