June 6
[560]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
MR. HERMAN. Until recently.
THE PRESIDENT. There was a slight drop in recent—I think the last week or
so, but for the last 9 months it has been going up very steadily, and over the last
year it has gone up 100 percent.
Now, I think there was a little apprehension that developed because we had
a Wholesale Price Index figure that went up .8 percent for the month of April.
But now that we had the good news of Friday where the Wholesale Price Index
went up .3 percent—then I also saw, as you did, that we had good unemploy-
ment news, and we added some 300,000 more to our employment figures. So, I
believe public confidence after that just 30-day setback will again start climbing,
and if it continues, as all of us think it will, we will have a continuous process
of economic growth and stability.
REPUBLICAN VICE-PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE
[10.] MR. SCHIEFFER. Mr. President, could I just for a tiny minute get back
to politics. I must say I am struck by how nice you are being to Ronald Reagan
today. At the beginning of the broadcast you talked about how you thought he
would grow in office if somehow he wound up there at the White House. You
talked about how you have obviously taken note of some of the statistics I cited
about how many Reagan voters were going over to Carter. Would it be fair
to say that you are not just including him, and you are not excluding him as a
Vice-Presidential possibility, but you are giving serious consideration to Ronald
Reagan as your running mate?
THE PRESIDENT. I am giving serious consideration to him like I am to all of
the other Republican potentials. I think we have to have an open mind about all
of, say, 10 to 15 individuals, including him.
REOPENING OF THE PRESIDENT KENNEDY ASSASSINATION INVESTIGATION
[11.] MR. HERMAN. Mr. President, one of the last times we had you on this
broadcast, when you were Congressman Jerry Ford, we asked you about the
Warren Report on the assassination of President Kennedy. A great deal more
information has come out about motive in the case of the assassination of Presi-
dent Kennedy, information which was not obviously available to you as a mem-
ber of the Warren Commission at the time. Do you agree with those who say
that, therefore, the Warren Commission Report should be reopened, the thing
should be restudied?
1801
