April 27
[373]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
a good deal of progress toward reducing redtape in the Federal Government.
The community development bloc grant program is an excellent example. On
my orders, Federal regulations for community development have been simpli-
fied and reduced from 2,600 pages to just 25 pages. Instead of filling out five
applications totaling 1,400 pages, a community now has to complete only one
50-page application. While processing and approval of these applications used to
average about 2 years, we have reduced that time to less than 2 months.
When I say I want to get the government off your back and out of your
hair, believe me, it's more than just campaign rhetoric. We have already started
and we have a lot more improvements planned for the future.
One of my foremost plans for the future is to balance the Federal budget—
and by the future, I mean no later than fiscal year 1979.
The budget that I submitted in January for fiscal year 1977 represents what
I believe will be a major turning point in the course followed by the Federal
Government, as it works for the American people. This budget does not hold
out any false promise that the Federal Government will immediately solve every
problem or achieve every goal of the American people. Instead, it reflects a com-
monsense balance between public and private initiatives and between the vari-
ous levels of Government which I referred to in my State of the Union Message
earlier this year.
We have halted spending trends that increasingly threatened our national
security and our national economic stability. I am committed to keeping the level
of Federal spending within reasonable and affordable limits, but I am also com-
mitted to achieving a better and a more bountiful life for all Americans.
My budget calls for a $396 billion spending ceiling. The Congress, in its budget
process, has taken the initial steps to increase the Federal spending limit by at
least $17 billion over what I proposed. But let me assure you that I am strongly
committed to the figure that I have submitted to the Congress of $396 billion.
I have used my veto 48 times in the last 20 months, and in the process Congress
has sustained 39 of them. And, the net result is, we have saved the taxpayers
$13 billion.
I believe we have struck a workable, reasonable, and honest balance with the
budget that I have proposed. We not only have this spending limit, which cuts
back the growth in Federal spending by 50 percent, but also we have recom-
mended that Congress approve an additional tax decrease on July 1 of approxi-
mately $10 billion.
This budget promises only what we know we can deliver, and I can assure
1235
