[398]
April 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
economic news will last in the future beyond this election, and we expect for
many, many years to come.
The first thing that we must do is to realize that the serious problems that
have plagued our economy for years cannot be solved overnight. Despite what
some politicians say or would have us believe, there are no quick fixes, no magic
potions, no easy answers to the complex problems of the world's most dynamic
and the most complex economic system.
The best estimates are that we will need 18 to 19 million new jobs in America
within the next 10 years, and the vast majority of these jobs must come from the
private sector. The facts are that 5 out of 6 jobs in America today are in the
private sector, and in order to give these 18 or 19 million young people, pri-
marily, a job opportunity, we have to give the private sector the greatest incen-
tives that we possibly can. And that is what this administration has done and will
continue to do for the next 4 months [years].
The American businessmen-you are the best job makers in the history of
this country and the challenge of the future is greater than any one of us have
faced before.
I happen to have with me a copy of the Humphrey-Hawkins bill, supported
by all but one of the opposition candidates. It's not the answer, and I can assure
you that I will oppose it all the way because it is the wrong direction for the
American economy to go.
By conservative estimates, we will need at least $4 trillion in new capital
investments over the next 10 years, including a trillion dollars for energy
development itself to keep pace of a strong and growing economy in America.
Increasing government control, increasing government taxes, increasing govern-
ment spending, will not solve the long-range problems of the American econ-
omy; they would only add to the problems that we have today.
What we really need in the future, and what I propose for the future, is a
major revitalization of personal initiative and private investment in America.
This initiative, this investment, this freedom is what made America great in the
first place, not a bureaucracy-bound Government in the Nation's Capital. And
it is this freedom that will make America greater still in the third century of our
independence.
This is what you want and what I want, and this is what we have to fight for
together.
Thank you very much, and now I will be delighted to answer any of your
questions.
1348
