[401]
April 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
Israel so that it will have the military capability to survive and we will have
enough for its security.
At the same time, we are trying to help Israel economically. Simultaneously,
I think it is good foreign policy for the United States to help Egypt, a country
which for 15 to 20 years had been under the control of the Soviet Union mili-
tarily and economically. They have cast the Soviet Union out of Egypt, and now
we have an opportunity to help a nation of 50 million who got rid of commu-
nism and who are asking for United States help and assistance. I think we ought
to be willing to help and assist that country, which has cast aside the domination
of the Soviet Union.
FEDERAL PAY INCREASES
[5.] Q. Mr. President, I would like to ask a question concerning the de-
fense—the military, about an increase, sir, on their pay above a 5-percent ceiling?
THE PRESIDENT. Let me discuss the question, which I think is one that ought
to be discussed. In the budget that I submitted for the next fiscal year, I recom-
mended a 5-percent increase in pay for the 2,100,000 men and women in the
Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marines and also a 5-percent increase for all civilian
employees of the Federal Government, and a cost-of-living increase for all those
on social security, railroad retirement, military retirement, et cetera.
Now, the problem is—it goes back to the question that this young lady asked
me a moment ago-we have to put some control over the increases in the rate
of growth of Federal spending, and it seems to me when we are faced with the
kind of deficits that we have had and as we try to achieve a balanced budget,
that a 5-percent increase for military as well as civilian personnel for the United
States Government, where they don't have the problems of unemployment once
they become classified employees or once they become a part of the military,
if they want to stay and make a career, they don't have any lapse in their pay,
that a 5-percent pay increase in this 12-month period was the best we could do
under these difficult circumstances.
I hope and trust the people in the military understand it because they are good
Americans and they know what our financial and fiscal problems are.
Q. Sir, just one last question, sir?
THE PRESIDENT. Can we have one and then at least another one?
REGISTRATION OF GUNOWNERS
[6.] Q. My question is: Would you favor treating firearms like automobiles;
namely, requiring operators licenses for their use off the owner's property in
lieu of restrictive laws, permits, registration, and so forth?
1370
