April 29
[387]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
INCREASE IN DEFENSE BUDGET
[22.] Q. Would you agree that the Reagan opposition has given you an
impetus to get your record defense budget through Congress?
THE PRESIDENT. No, because I made the decision in November-December of
1975 that I wanted a 14-percent increase in the defense budget, that I wanted the
biggest defense budget in the history of the United States with a $14 billion
increase in obligation authority and a $10 billion increase in spending for the
Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marines.
Those decisions were made in November and December of 1975. At that
time, my opponent was not a candidate. And therefore, the decision that I made
to give to this country the largest, strongest defense budget in the history of
the United States was made without any regard whatsoever to the political
charges made by my opponent.
And the fact that we submitted that budget, the fact that it appears we have
been able to convince the Congress to give it to us, I think is an endorsement
of the policy and the new Secretary of Defense.
EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES FOR VETERANS AND MINORITIES
[23.] Q. Bill Vincent, KUHF News at the University of Houston.
Mr. President, your administration is putting forth to the public that you
are reducing unemployment. However, a veterans' organization in Washington
has reported that unemployment on Vietnam minorities and young veterans is
approximately 20 percent. I want to know, as a concerned veteran, what specific
policies and programs you will initiate to eliminate this plight among the men
and women who served our country?
THE PRESIDENT. First, the best way to get all Americans back to work is the
program that I have advocated where we have added 2,600,000 more employees
over the last 12 months, including a number of veterans, a number of minorities.
In the case of the minorities, we have had for the younger people the full fund-
ing of what we call our Summer Youth Program at a cost of about $450 million
for each summer over a 4-month period.
In the case of veterans, we firmly believe in the GI education bill to get young
people better qualified to have better jobs. And we have had in the past, and we
are working on it, the program to employ, to get private business to employ
veterans. The organization is called the National Association of Business, as I
recollect―NAB is the abbreviation of it. They are making a major effort to
try and get jobs for Vietnam veterans, particularly, and they have had consider-
able success, although we have got to do better.
1309
