[333]
April 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
freest in the history of mankind. So, I am a believer in competition. I can be a
good winner, and I can be a good loser, but the competition is good, and I hope
we never lose it in America.
VETO OF CHILD DAY CARE LEGISLATION
[8.] Q. Mr. President, first I want to thank you for vetoing the irresponsible
child care bill.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you. That was number 47. I think the Congress will
sustain it because it is bad, I think, organizationally speaking. I think it is bad
for many other reasons, plus it just was another instance of the Federal Govern-
ment setting standards and preempting the right of individual States to set
standards when the record is very clear that States do set high and responsible
standards, dependent upon the circumstances in each State. And there is no
reason whatsoever why the Federal Government had to set a national standard
in this area. So, it wasn't hard to veto it.
SMALL BUSINESSES
[9.] Q. Mr. President, I understand that over 90 percent of our Nation's
businesses are self-employed and family businesses, yet our politicians insist on
referring to this large segment of our economy as small. Is it possible, Mr. Presi-
dent, to begin action in Washington to remove the stigma of "small," a most re-
pugnant title placed on this most energetic segment of our economy? The IRS
at least refers to us-I must include myself-as self-employed. It sounds better.
THE PRESIDENT. I don't get the impression in Washington that we consider
small business or the self-employed as a title of stigma. If I can recall the many
debates on the floor of the House of Representatives and discussions I have had
with the Democratic and Republican leadership in the Cabinet Room, Members
of Congress as well as myself honor and respect small business, including the
self-employed.
Most of the condemnation that you are getting today, some of it fair and
much of it unfair, comes at what we call conglomerates or massive business
organizations that employ literally thousands and thousands and do billions of
dollars worth of business.
I think the Congress, as well as we in the executive branch, are grateful for
and appreciate tremendously the contributions of small business. You are not
going to be hurt by anything done by us or in the Congress, I can assure you of
that.
1106
