[495]
May 18
Public Papers of the Presidents
As in the past, our security and our prosperity still depend upon our willing-
ness to work together, to cooperate in meeting common problems and meeting
common challenges.
We meet tonight, Mr. President, in a time of peace. Continued peace requires
that every democracy remain strong and prepared to defend its liberty. As
Washington said: To be prepared for war is one of the most effectual means of
preserving the peace.
In a gesture symbolic of the commitment of both of our nations to safe-
guarding the security of our peoples, Madam Giscard d'Estaing will travel to
Mississippi in the next day or two to christen the United States Navy's newest de-
stroyer, the DeGrasse. And I compliment you and wish you well on that fine
occasion on Saturday.
This ship, Mr. President, named for the French admiral whose fleet made
possible a very decisive victory at Yorktown will contribute to the strength and
to the capability of our own Navy. The DeGrasse will also contribute to the
objectives and to the goals that we share with France-to preserve the peace,
to protect our freedom, and to keep the sea lanes of the world fully open to
the democratic nations.
Mr. President, for 200 years France and the United States shared dreams,
shared challenges, shared victories in every sphere of human endeavor. The
mutual esteem and inspiration which mark our relationship today flow from
common ideals, determination, and mutual reinforcement. I foresee a very
vital partnership for generations to come between our two nations.
And I might say on a personal basis, Mr. President, it has been a unique
and a wonderful experience for me to have made your acquaintance and to
have worked with you, and I look forward to a continuation of that experience
for what I hope is the benefit of our countries for a good many years to come.
It is altogether fitting that the nations which two centuries ago gave the
world two very fundamental charters of liberty-our Declaration of Independ-
ence and the declaration of the rights of man-should still stand together for
freedom and for justice for all.
So, let us toast that partnership on the eve of its third century. To the health
of the President of the French Republic and to the liberty, equality, and fra-
ternity of the people of France and the United States.
NOTE: The President spoke at approximately 10:20
p.m. at the French Embassy in response to a toast
proposed by President Giscard d'Estaing. President
Giscard d'Estaing spoke in French. His remarks
were translated by an interpreter as follows:
Mr. President:
It is a great pleasure for Madam Giscard d'Estaing
and myself to welcome you and Mrs Ford this
evening here in this French abode and to return
to you some of the warm hospitality that you and
1626
