[404]
April 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
Now, under the decontrol features, let me recite very quickly what we have
accomplished, using every possible way to decontrol this great industry in our
country. The first action we took was to propose to the Congress that we deregu-
late residual oil, and that is now effective.
We are in the process of proposing the deregulation of distillates, and that
should happen in the relatively near future, unless Congress turns us down. We
are in the process of proposing the deregulation of gasoline, and as soon as that
can get through the congressional mill-and I hope it will-that part of the
FEA's responsibility will be totally terminated.
Now under the law, we are permitted to ask over the 40-month period, the
first step of a 10-percent increase in the-what is it?-composite price, $7.66–
$5.25 for old oil and-what is it?-12-something for new oil. But we are in the
process right now of getting that first 10-percent increase. And I assure you—
because I know it is right, because it conforms with my basic philosophy that I
set forth in January of 1975-that we will use every step that is possible to get
decontrol by the end of the 40-month period.
Now, one other point, I can recall very vividly in the last days of trying to get
the energy act changed to make it as flexible and, I think, as constructive as pos-
sible. We were trying to do something for stripper wells and tertiary production.
And let me just say that our people worked as hard as they could to get the
last element into the conference report, but unfortunately there were certain
powers on the liberal side-I say liberal side-of the Democratic Party that just
wouldn't go along. I could name them, but it doesn't do any good at this point.
All I know is they didn't go along with what we proposed. Maybe you know
who I am talking about. They aren't going to be President of the United States,
I can tell you that. [Laughter]
But what I am trying to say-I know and I have known from the first time
that we had to sit down and analyze what our problem was the only way
to become energy independent in this country is to provide an incentive so
people will explore, they will drill, they will produce, they will refine, and
they will market.
One final comment: Speaking of marketing and all the other things that
go to make up this great industry, there are people in the Congress today who
want to go and force down this great industry what is called divestiture.
People have asked me how I feel about that. I will tell you how I feel about it.
When you measure divestiture in any of the bills that have been proposed—
and the criteria is, will it increase production, make us more independent, will
it in any way reduce the price to consumers?-when you measure any of those
1382
