[461]
May 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
We had faith that the American system of private enterprise would regain its
strength and, as a result, we meet today not in the gloom of a depression or a
recession but in the full surge of economic recovery. Everything that is supposed
to be going up is going up, and everything that is supposed to be going down is
going down. Our great free enterprise economic system is working, and let's
take a quick look at some of the indicators.
The gross national product rose during the first quarter of this year at an
annual rate of 7¹½ percent. Total industrial production for March of this year
was 9.9 percent in real terms over the same month of 1975. The index of con-
sumer confidence is double what it was a year ago. Consumer prices during
the first quarter increased at the slowest rate in 3 years. During 1974, the
annual rate of inflation stood at 12 percent. We have cut that by well over 50
percent. During the first 3 months of 1976, the annual inflation rate has been not
12 percent, not 6 percent, but under 3 percent, and that is progress by any score.
Total employment has increased by 3,300,000 since the recession low of last
year and now stands at an alltime high of 87,400,000, an increase of some
710,000 jobs in the past month alone.
Unemployment is still far too high, particularly here in Michigan, but the
most recent State unemployment insurance figures show that unemployment
in Michigan now is dropping faster than it is in the rest of the Nation. Na-
tionally, the unemployment rate now is down to 71, percent and unemploy
ment among heads of households, male and female, is down to 5 percent. That
is not good enough, but we are moving dramatically in the right direction.
And finally, as you know, domestic automobile production is up by 51 per-
cent over the comparable period of last year, 1 million more cars. Sales are up
and Americans are buying more American-made cars again. That means more
American jobs, and that's good news for Michigan and the whole economy.
Our economic recovery was no accident. It just didn't happen. You made it
happen and the sound policies of my administration made it happen. From
the very beginning, I forced the Congress to abandon or to severely cut back
reckless Federal spending programs. One of my most important weapons is the
veto. I vetoed 49 bills sent to me by the Congress, and 42 of those vetoes have
been sustained, saving the American taxpayer $13 billion.
This was done with the great help of Senator Bob Griffin and his Republi-
can and some Democratic colleagues in the House as well as in the Senate. That
saving of $13 billion averages out to almost $200 for every household which my
vetoes have saved, and there are plenty more of those vetoes where those 40-some
have come from.
1536
