May 25
[531]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
530
Remarks at a Rossmoor President Ford Committee Reception
in Walnut Creek, California. May 25, 1976
JUST AS we indicated out there, we got some pretty good news from Ten-
nessee and Kentucky. I think we are ahead in Oregon and, of course, what was
most satisfying—and some of the people from home would understand it—
was the great shot in the arm we got in Michigan.
The thing that pleased me the most about Michigan was not only what the
State did but as Winter knows, I had the privilege and honor of serving the
congressional district for 25-plus years, and 16 of those years I served two
counties. Those two counties went 85 percent.
There is one little voting community down in Ottawa County that the Win-
ters know about called Overrizen. It is a crossroads, really, in a very rich agricul-
tural area. They have got three great churches, probably three gas stations, and
a school. They had 595 votes for me and 2 for my opponent. [Laughter]
But I am really getting very optimistic about the situation in California. We
have had a wonderful trip out here. The crowds have been very good. The
enthusiasm has really been infectious and contagious and inspiring and we are
going to make a real fight of it. All of you who can help, as you have, I will
be most grateful. And Betty and I will never let you down in the next 4 years.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:50 p.m. in the
Peacock Room. In his remarks, he referred to Dr.
and Mrs. Garrett E. Winter, personal friends.
531
As printed above, this item follows the text of
the White House press release.
Remarks at a President Ford Committee Reception in Walnut
Creek, California. May 25, 1976
THANK YOU very, very much, Dan. These two people have done a great job,
and I can't thank both of them enough, and I am very, very appreciative. But
there's no way I can express my appreciation adequately for what all you have
done except to say that Betty and I, or First Mama and I, are very, very grateful.
[Laughter]
But we have some very good news. I just found out that CBS is projecting
that I win in Kentucky by about 53 to 46, as I understand it. And the first returns
in from Tennessee show us—what is it, Dick?—a six-point lead, with the first
returns from Tennessee.
1733
