[560]
June 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. I think in the very limited area a reopening might be desir-
able. The Warren Commission did make a massive effort to try to find a
motive, and we had academicians, we had lawyers, we had all kinds of people
trying to find out.
MR. HERMAN. Everything but the information from CIA that you needed.
THE PRESIDENT. And we never were able to find a motive. And if there is
some additional, I think, constructive information available. I think it ought
to be reopened in that very limited area.
MR. HERMAN. You say "if." Do you not think that there is the additional
information?
THE PRESIDENT. I have not had an opportunity to examine the detailed in-
formation, and until I have personally examined it I don't think I ought to pass
judgment on it.
SECRETARY OF STATE KISSINGER
[12.] MR. HERMAN. Mr. President, you said repeatedly that yours is an open
administration, anybody can come in and talk to you. Has anybody come in
and talked to you about getting rid of Secretary Kissinger as a means of
improving your chances?
THE PRESIDENT. Absolutely not.
MR. HERMAN. Nobody in the administration?
THE PRESIDENT. Nobody in this administration has come to me asking that I
fire Secretary Kissinger. I happen to think he has done a first-class job towards
peace, and that is the responsibility of the Secretary, to carry out my foreign
policy. It has been successful, so I want him to stay.
MR. HERMAN. Thank you very much, President Ford, for being our guest on
Face the Nation today.
NOTE: The interview was taped at 11:50 am, on
Saturday, June 5, 1976, in the CBS television
studios in Washington, DC, for broadcast at
11:30 am. on Sunday, June
561
Exchange With Reporters on Arrival at Newark, New Jersey.
June 6, 1976
GOOD MORNING, everybody. It's nice to be in New Jersey again. I have
been here a good many times, but it's nice to be back here today. I deeply
appreciate Senator Case and the Members of the congressional delegation. And
it's nice to have an opportunity to make a comment or two.
1802
