May 19
[499]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
we hope you have many, many more years of good service with AEI, Bill, and
that AEI continues over the years in making its meaningful contribution to
not only the legislative branch but to the executive branch. Both of us need
a lot of help and this is the kind of talent that we like to have. [Laughter]
And I, in closing, could make one observation: I have met, as I said, with
this group in 1974 and it was nice to see so many old friends. I met with your
board of directors last year, as I recall, and it's nice to have an opportunity to say
a few words here tonight. It would be awful nice to have a similar opportunity
for each of the next 4 years. [Laughter]
NOTE: The President spoke at 7:58 p.m. in the
Dolley Madison Ballroom at the Madison Hotel.
In his opening remarks, he referred to Herman J.
Schmidt, chairman of the board of trustees, Dr. Paul
W. McCracken, chairman of the academic advisory
board, and William J. Baroody, Sr., president,
American Enterprise Institute for Public Policy
Research.
499
Exchange With President Giscard d'Estaing of France on
Accepting France's Bicentennial Gift to the United States.
May 19, 1976
Mr. President, Madam Giscard d'Estaing, distinguished guests, ladies and
gentlemen:
I am greatly honored to accept this magnificent presentation on behalf of
the American people. It is an ingenious and very generous gift, a symbol of
the common heritage of friendship and devotion to freedom which distin-
guishes the historic ties between our two countries.
The sound and light display will take its place with your country's gift
in 1876 to our centennial, the Statue of Liberty. It has become a symbol,
Mr. President, of America, as well as a continuing reminder of the inspiring
values that we share between our two countries. For many generations the lady
with the lamp has welcomed millions and millions of immigrants yearning to
breathe free in our country.
PRESIDENT GISCARD D'ESTAING. Mr. President, a hundred years ago, to celebrate
the first centenary of her friends and ally, the American people, France gave
America the Statue of Liberty, casting light upon the world. Today, by throw-
ing a veil of light on the home of George Washington, it is again freedom, of
which he was the hero, that France has chosen to commemorate for this second
centennial.
By lighting up these surroundings where he lived and where he is buried, may
1633
