[442]
May 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
It is not necessary to extend Federal participation to interior points where
no hint of impropriety has ever been reported, but I intend to see corruption in
the grain inspection business stopped, and we will stop it firmly where it has
existed.
I also intend to reduce the excessive Government regulation of farm opera-
tions. For that reason, I was glad to sign the legislation exempting custom
combine operators and other skilled farm workers from the provisions of the
Farm Labor Contract Registration Act. Incidentally, I would like to sign an
amendment to that legislation shortening the title of the act, but I guess you
can't have everything.
I do favor Federal regulation when it is necessary, as in the case of the
proposed packer bonding legislation to protect livestock producers against
losses from bankruptcies and other serious financial problems in the livestock
packing industry.
The future success of American agriculture depends on striking a better
balance between providing Government assistance where it is needed and re-
moving Government restrictions which are not needed.
My administration is working hard to strike that balance because I know that
the future of America depends so much on you, your work, as well as your
success. I have taken steps to enhance that future by recommending in my latest
budget proposals a $21 million increase in funds for new, fundamental re-
search efforts in agricultural sciences.
Research has been the key to the American farmers' miraculous production
revolution. If we are to double world agricultural output in the next 25 years,
as we must, both new technology and better use of existing technology are abso-
lutely essential. Your own University of Nebraska has benefited from our re-
search programs and, I must say, returned the favor. In a joint effort with the
Department of Agriculture, the university has developed a rugged new strain of
winter wheat which now accounts for a major portion of our total winter wheat
crop.
Finally, the future depends on the new generations of Americans who will
take your places on the farms and the fields of America. I want to preserve the
family farm, one of America's greatest resources. I want those farms to stay in
the family, rather than be sacrificed to pay the tax collectors. Accordingly, I
have proposed legislation to increase the estate tax exemption from $60,000 to
$150,000 and, in addition, to stretch out estate tax payments at very low interest
rates over a 25-year period; to exempt transfers of property between husband
and wife.
1494
