April 23
[356]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
will expire June 1 of this year unless it is reinstated. I realize that this is a highly
complex problem, but could you tell me what your position on the reinstatement
of this mandatory fuel allocation program is, and why?
THE PRESIDENT. I recommended to the Congress within the last month or so
the extension of the authorization for the Federal Energy Administration
through 1978 or 1979. I think that agency must be in existence to manage the
various programs where the Federal Government is trying to conserve energy,
where the Federal Government is trying to stimulate new sources of energy, and
where the Federal Government is trying to make equitable allocations of what
energy we have, principally in oil sources.
I think the programs ought to be continued. I think they ought to be phased
down as we solve a problem. That program should not go on ad infinitum, but
I do believe that we ought to extend it to 1979, as I recall, so that we can continue
to get equitable allocations, carry out our conservation programs, and stimulate
new production.
THE NATION'S THIRD CENTURY
[6.] Q. Mr. President, I hope this is a simple question. It might not be. It
seems to me that our country has always been most productive when we have
had a national purpose or a national direction. What do you think should be our
national purpose or direction, and what Federal programs would you propose
to see that that direction is seen through?
The President. I think in the third century of America's history we should
put emphasis on the right of the individual. As we look back historically, in the
first century of America's history we developed a good kind of government, a
stable, constructive kind of government.
In our second century of American history, we became the greatest industrial
nation in the history of mankind.
Our third century ought to be emphasizing the right of the individual, so that
he is not overburdened by mass government, by mass industry, by mass labor, by
mass education. The American citizen today is well enough educated that he
ought to have more individual freedom and liberty, and in this next century,
instead of passing more laws to overburden it, we ought to start rescinding some
of the laws that inhibit and prohibit.
So, I am going to be very restrained in my term about advocating any new
laws. I think we ought to undertake the job of trying to get some of them off
the statute books.
1177
