April 23
[353]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
a person is on the payroll and has his Civil Service status, it is seldom, if any,
that he is unemployed, so he does not have to face the problem like auto workers
have or any other private sector employee. So, in my judgment, the fact that
you got a slightly less pay increase is offset, to some extent, by your more or less
guaranteed annual wage.
Q. I understand that and I agree with you, but I just hope we can stop, so that
we don't have to ask for any more increases, and I know you do, too. Do you have
any answers? I guess no one does, and I guess you don't either.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think the program that I have pursued for the last 20
months has shown significant progress in trying to get a handle on the rate of
inflation. When you can go from 12 to 13 percent down to 2.9 percent, by any
standard that is pretty good progress, and we are going to do better.
Well, let me thank you, President Jones, and all of the students and faculty at
Butler and all of the citizens of Indianapolis and Kokomo and every place else.
It has been a great privilege and pleasure for me to be here. I am deeply grateful
for this opportunity. These kinds of public forums are healthy and are the
strength and the bulwark of America—we ought to do more of it.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:05 p.m. in Hinkle
Fieldhouse at Butler University, which sponsored the
forum. In his opening remarks, he referred to
353
Alexander E. Jones, president, and Jack B. Guest,
president of the Student Assembly, Butler University.
Remarks at President Ford Committee Headquarters in
Indianapolis. April 23, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Bill, Governor Bowen, other distinguished guests,
and, particularly my old and very good friend, Bill Bray, here—it is awful nice
to see you, Bill.
You can't imagine what a thrill it was to come to Indianapolis and have
that wonderfully warm welcome that was accorded me last night at Butler
University Fieldhouse.
I can't imagine anybody having a warmer spot for a city or the people
than to have that kind of an expression. So, I thank you if you were there, I
thank you if you weren't, because it was a great night—just thanks very, very
much.
Now, let me also express my deepest appreciation to your wonderful Gover-
nor—didn't I just see Bob Orr¹ come in—and all of the other people in the
1 Lieutenant Governor of Indiana.
1159
