[418]
May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
it's a good decision. But you will have to ask him or get any question answered
by him as to why he did it in the last 48 hours.
Q. Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you all very much. Good to be in Indiana.
NOTE: President Ford's thirts second news conference began at 11 am. in the Arabian Balltown at the
Murat Shrine Temple, Indianapolis, Ind.
419
Exchange With Reporters on Arrival at Birmingham, Alabama.
May 3, 1976
GOOD AFTERNOON. It's great to be in Birmingham along with John
Buchanan and all of the other fine people that are with the Republican Party
and with the President Ford Committee. It is nice to be here, and I will be
glad to answer any of your questions.
REPORTER. Mr. President, you said that Ronald Reagan is the only Republican
that can beat Jimmy Carter in the South. If you are the Republican nomince.
will you have a Southern strategy, so to speak?
THE PRESIDENT. I think it's best for the country if a candidate for the Presidency
has a program to win all over the country. Of course, the Southern region of
our great Nation is a vitally important area, economically and politically and
otherwise, but I think a President who is going to be President of all the people
must get support from all regions of the country. And when I am the nominee
of the Republican Party, after the convention in Kansas City, I will make a
national appeal to voters all over the country.
Q. Mr. President, how well do you think you will do in the Alabama primary
THE PRESIDENT. We are always hopeful. I have got some outstanding people
who are working very hard on my behalf. I have got some very strong
endorsements from some of the top political people in the State of Alabama.
I think I have good programs to get the economy moving again, as it is, with
increasing prosperity. I think I have got a program that means no American
boys are fighting in combat. We are getting all our military personnel by an
all-volunteer military force. So, when you look at our leadership, our endorse-
ments, our programs and policies, I think we will do quite well in the State
of Alabama.
Q. Do you think you will get a large crossover vote like you did in Texas?
The President. I have no way of knowing. Certainly, in Texas, there was a
1446
