[362]
April 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
You know, this is the ninth time I have been in Georgia in a very few years
but, I must say, tonight proves to me that I like it better and better every time.
Thank you. And I am honestly looking forward to the question and answer
session tonight. But let me at the outset make a few brief remarks.
I spent most of today in Atlanta, and I notice there is a pretty big Ford plant
there on I-75. Now, as much as I favor a strong and prosperous American auto-
mobile economy, I have come to tell you in Georgia there is absolutely no reason
to trade in your Ford in 1976.
When we look back over the past 20 months that I have had the honor and
privilege to serve as your President, I think we can see a great deal of progress
has been made in areas that are of greatest importance to all of you.
The worst economic recession of America in the last 40 years has been replaced
by a strong and very stable economic recovery. Today, everything that is sup-
posed to be going up is going up and everything that is supposed to be going
down is going down.
Today, more Americans are gainfully employed than ever before in the his-
tory of this great country; 86,700,000 Americans were working in March of
1976, and that is over 21½ million more than were on the job 1 year ago today.
At the same time, unemployment is going down-from a high of nearly 9
percent last May to 7.5 percent today. That is still not good enough, but that is
progress, and there is more where that came from. The trend is in the right
direction, and we won't be satisfied in this country until everybody who wants a
job will have a job.
Real earnings for the American worker are up dramatically from over a
year ago; total retail sales are up more than 17 percent from last year; auto sales
are up 43 percent; furniture and appliances up more than 17 percent; food sales
up more than 9 percent; general merchandise sales up 13 percent.
The index of consumer confidence, which is the real test, is double what it
was a year ago. The Commerce Department announced earlier this week that
the gross national product rose at an annual rate of 7½ percent in the first quarter
of 1976. The Consumer Price Index released just 2 days ago showed that the
annual rate of inflation in the first 3 months of 1976 was only 2.9 percent-the
lowest quarterly inflation rate since the summer of 1972.
It is easy to get lost in a sea of statistics when we talk about the economy, but
all of these statistics point to one simple, undeniable fact: We are on the road to
a new and lasting prosperity in 1976, and we're not about to be sidetracked now
by an irresponsible Congress.
Finally, in the last 20 months there seems so much progress in making gov-
1192
