[418]
May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
EMPLOYMENT
[16.] Q. Mr. Ford, you have praised yourself in several months, in recent
months at least, for reducing unemployment and also for reducing inflation.
But the fact remains that in a number of large, inner-city urban areas, a large
percentage of minority and poor people remain unemployed and probably will
remain unemployed despite the expansion of the economy.
My question to you is, given this fact and the fact that the current comprehen-
sive employment training programs and summer youth employment programs
are not absorbing a lot of people who would like to have jobs, don't you think
it is time for the Federal Government to step in and, on a limited basis, perhaps,
have maybe an economic Marshall plan?
THE PRESIDENT. Every year since I have been President, I have recommended
the full funding of what we call the summer youth program, which is primar-
ily aimed at helping to give summer jobs to the youth in our major metropolitan
areas.
This is a program which costs about $450 million a year. I recommended it
every year, and I have proposed it for this coming summer. In addition, as our
economy improves, we are going to get more job opportunities for the youth
in our major metropolitan areas, including minority youth.
But, in addition, I have recommended the full funding of what we call the
CETA program, which helps to train young people as well as others to get bet-
ter jobs or to get jobs in the first instance. That program, plus the summer
youth program, plus some of the other programs that we utilize to help cities
with their own problems, I think, will be helpful in trying to get the problem
that you raise-which is a very legitimate one-solved by this Government.
Q. But the fact remains that there would be a large percentage, literally mil-
lions of people in the inner-city areas who would still not have jobs. And I
would like to know, as a Republican candidate for the Presidency, do you have
any specific programs in mind that would solve this aspect of the problem
THE PRESIDENT. We have the program of getting the total economy back
where it's prosperous, better than it ever has. And five out of the six jobs in this
country are in the private sector. And that is where the best job opportunity
is for young people, including those in major metropolitan areas.
So, with the summer youth program, with the CETA program and the other
programs we have, we think we can solve that problem, and I believe we will.
POLLUTION CONTROL AND THE ECONOMY
[17.] Q. Mr. President, given the upturn in the economy and corporate
1442
