June 7
[571]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
could have been tempted to take advantage of a very difficult time in this
country.
But in the last 22 months, I think we can point to success and progress in every
one of those fields. There is no doubt that because of the candor and frankness
and forthrightness of the Ford administration, we have restored public confi-
dence, public trust in the White House, in the Oval Office itself.
As my good friends in the Congress know, I have never promised more than
I can produce, and I have produced everything that I have promised.
But let us turn to the circumstances involving our economy. A year ago we had
employment going down and unemployment going up. In the last 12 months
we have totally reversed that. We have gained 3,600,000 jobs in the last 12 months,
and that's a good record. In the last month alone we gained an additional 300,000
jobs, and for the fourth month in a row, the Department of Labor has been able
to indicate that we have reached an alltime high in employment, 87,700,000
people with jobs in America. The record is good, and we ought to be proud
of it and talk about it.
But how did we get those jobs? We didn't get those jobs by loading up the
Federal payroll. We didn't get those jobs by budget-busting bills that some of the
Democrats in Congress were trying to stuff down our throat. We got those jobs
because we relied on the private sector, where five out of the six jobs in this
country are today.
As we look down the road, we are going to emphasize the private sector.
We are not going to give them temporary, nonadvancement employment. If
we get the kind of economy that we have today and can continue to it for
tomorrow, we are going to be able to say to people: You have got jobs that
have opportunities for advancement and permanency.
How did we get that? We got that by the kind of policies where we offer tax
reductions to the American people. In 1975 I recommended a very substantial
Federal tax cut; the Congress went along. Twenty-five percent of that reduc-
tion went to the benefit of industry so they could have incentives to expand,
to modernize. We gave 75 percent of that tax reduction to the people of this
country so they could spend their money and not have the Federal Government
spend it for them.
In addition, in January of this year, in order to keep the momentum of our
economy on the right track, I recommended a 50-percent reduction in the
growth of Federal spending. I recommended an additional $10 billion tax cut to
begin on July 1, with an increase in the personal exemption from $750 to $1,000
for the American taxpayer. That's the kind of a benefit that the Ford adminis-
1827
