April 9
[321]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
not total deregulation, but it was a big step forward. And we went along with
it, worked with the two sponsors of that legislation.
We anticipated that the House of Representatives, after a hard fight, would
likewise go along with it. We lost in the subcommittee and the Committee on
Interstate and Foreign Commerce. We lost in the full committee, but when it
got to the floor, we had one of the Members of the House offer a substitute which,
in effect, was the Pearson-Bentsen bill, and we lost by three votes.
It was a tragedy, absolute tragedy-3 votes, 205 to 202, or something like that.
Then the House of Representatives passed a far worse bill called the Smith bill
which, among other things, would put Federal control on intrastate gas, not
just on interstate gas. Well, the net result is the two bills are incompatible.
Bentsen-Pearson is a step forward—a big step forward. And the Smith bill
is a step backwards.
Now, I don't know whether we can somehow work something out or not,
but as far as I am concerned, I stand by what I recommended in January of 1975,
that the Congress deregulate natural gas, period.
And if I might interject maybe one partisan fact, not a philosophical argu-
ment, but on the votes for deregulation of natural gas, 90 percent of the Repub-
licans voted for deregulation and only 22 percent of the Democrats. That shows
there is a difference. [Laughter]
SOCIAL SECURITY BENEFITS
[9.] Q. I would like to ask you why the senior citizens seem to be penalized
when they remarry and lose their social security or part of their social security?
The President. Well, I think the assumption is that when a widow marries
a second time, that her husband is in a position to either support her with his
social security or other resources and, on that basis, the law from the very be-
ginning has precluded a widow from getting what she got from her first
husband.
That is the way the law is, and I can see where you are suggesting it is in-
equitable. We have got a lot of things of that kind. One of the grossest examples,
which is in the same area—a woman who works for 5 years and then marries
and actually, if she continues to work, when they retire she can't draw her social
security.
Now that certainly is an inequity in my judgment, but that is, unfortunately,
the way the law is. We have a commission or a committee that is studying the
whole thing, including the financing of social security, and things of this sort
undoubtedly will come before me and before the Congress in 1977.
1049
