June 7
[575]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
But let me just talk for a minute about what we're going to do when we move
ahead toward greater prosperity. I'm not going to be satisfied until every Amer-
ican who wants a job can get a job. That's what we are going to do.
But let's talk about the national security and how the United States stands
around the world. Under the Ford administration, we achieved the peace. Un-
der the Ford administration because we are strong, under the Ford administra-
tion because we have respect from our allies and trust from our friends around
the world, we are going to keep the peace.
I remind you of this fact: Not a single American boy is fighting and dying
on foreign soil under the Ford administration, and that's progress.
Let me say because of this great community's interest in Wright-Patterson
Air Force Base, it performs a tremendously important function in keeping
America strong, in keeping America ready, in giving us the ideas and the pro-
duction to keep us where we can handle every required military mission. I was
talking to your great Senator, Bob Taft, and Chuck Whalen on the way up
here from Middletown, and they tell me that as the result of the budget recom-
mendations that I proposed in January, there will be $36 million in construc-
tion in Wright-Patterson in the next 12 months. That is how much support I
have for Wright-Patterson Air Force Base.
I need your help tomorrow so we can go to Kansas City and win, and we can
go to the election in November. What are the stakes in the election in Novem-
ber? The stakes are very simple—a Republican candidate who can win or a
Republican candidate who will be defeated.
Congressman Whalen, Bob Taft, all of the Republican Members of the House
as well as the Senate, with few exceptions, say that President Ford can win
and President Ford can make certain that more Republicans will be reelected
and more Republicans will be elected to the Congress of the United States.
And that's what we've got to do.
So, let me summarize. You don't want to nominate a Republican candidate
for the Presidency who can't win. You want a guy that will win, and you want
a Republican candidate for the Presidency who will strengthen the party at
the courthouse level, at the municipal level, at the legislative level, at the con-
gressional level, so we will have a stronger team to achieve and maintain the
peace, prosperity, and trust.
I need your help so I can do that job better in the next 4 years.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 1 p.m. at the Montgomery County Historical Museum.
1835
