May 24
[519]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Here again, however, the Congress—or at least some in the Senate-seem
intent upon turning victory into defeat. After completing the most thorough
test program in the history of manned flights, now 90-percent complete, after
three Presidents and seven Secretaries of Defense and every Congress since
1970 has certified its value as well as its importance, after almost 25 years since
our last strategic bomber was built, the Senate has jumped in at the last
moment and said, "Let's wait until next February.”
I believe the American people will recognize the transparency of that kind of
political interference with our national security needs. On November 1, I will
make the final decision on whether or not to go ahead with production of the
B-1. The money the Senate wants to hold back would be spent only if and when
the tests are completed in a very satisfactory way and met all the standards and
specifications established and only if I have made the decision to go ahead with
production. I sincerely hope that the Congress will understand the folly of pre-
venting us from being able to produce this aircraft in a timely manner.
We are strong today, and our allies and our adversaries know it, and that's why
America today is at peace. Let there be no doubt whatsoever, we intend to stay
strong so that we can stay at peace.
We will continue to give our soldiers, sailors, airmen, and marines the tools,
the finest tools, to do the job. We will use our weapons if we must. We will al-
ways favor reason over force, but we will use force if force is necessary for our
national security and our precious freedom. We will stay strong by maintaining
America's total strength. That means we must keep America's economy strong.
Not long ago, America's strength was threatened not by a foreign adversary,
but by our own economic problems. Too many Americans had lost their jobs.
Inflation was eating up the value of our dollar. Business feared to invest, and
the future in many parts of the world, in many industries, many communities—
looked very, very bleak.
There were some who lost faith in our great, private economic system in
America. They thought that we could only get out of the recession if we bought
our way out with a Federal check or by letting the Government interfere in the
people's business. But we didn't panic; we didn't lose our cool. We decided to
fight this threat to America's strength with a sound, steady, and constructive
program of action.
We gave tax cuts to consumers, incentives to industry, and we made every
effort to hold down the cost of government. As Pete said, we were able to cut
the projected growth in Federal spending as a whole by 50 percent. The trend
in government expenditures over a period of 10 years had been at the rate of
1695
