May 6
[435]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
435
Remarks at a Reception for Members of the Michigan
Association of Broadcasters. May 6, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Ken MacDonald and Tony Gaston and all of the
members of the Michigan Broadcaster's Association and guests:
It's first a great privilege and pleasure to be able to come back to one of
these meetings that I have attended a good many times—I think every time
since the group has met here--but I also wish to thank all of you on behalf of
Betty and myself for the beautiful gift that will be deeply cherished by both of
us as we move ahead. And I can assure you that the mere fact that you have
selected me for this first award on behalf of the Michigan Broadcaster's Associa-
tion is a—well, I just won't forget it, and I thank you very, very much.
You know, talking to Ken and talking to Tony brought back some memories,
and those memories go back to about 1945, '46, '47. I had just come back from
military service, and I was practicing law, and I wanted some activities involv-
ing athletics. And so I did some color broadcasts or athletic broadcasts in a very
minor way—probably not very competently—[laughter]—for some of the foot-
ball games. And Ken did it down there at WPAG, and Tony did it, at that time,
down at WJEF. So you know the three of us had a beginning, and now we are
Presidents. [Laughter]
I'm sorry Betty isn't here because I am sure she would have been able to
appreciate the beautiful gift that has been given. But Betty is out in California.
Ever since I saw that Detroit News poll which showed that she got 70 percent
and I got 50-some percent―[laughter]—I have decided that I ought to ask her
to go around the country so that she could get my votes up to her polls.
[Laughter] But Betty will express to all of you, as I have, our appreciation for
this very thoughtful gift and this very fine award.
I was reminiscing just before coming over here about some of the things
that have happened, transpired, in the intervals between one visit that you all
make to Washington and the next one, and they come on a yearly basis. My
memory isn't that good that I can go back 20-some years ago and recapitulate
or refresh my memory, but there are 2 years that certainly are fresh in my
memory.
Two years ago, I had just been made Vice President or had been Vice President
for a relatively short period of time when I joined you on an occasion like this.
And of course, in the interval between that meeting 2 years ago and this meet-
1479
