[418]
May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
POSSIBILITY OF THE PRESIDENT ACCEPTING VICE-PRESIDENTIAL NOMINATION
[12.] Q. Would you consider accepting the number two spot on the ticket,
should you lose?
THE PRESIDENT. Of course not.
Q. Of course not?
THE PRESIDENT. Of course not.
Q. Why is that, sir?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I think that, first, I anticipate winning in Kansas City
and I, therefore, don't anticipate any opportunity to serve as Vice President. I
have had that experience, which was helpful in the job that I'm now doing as
President. And since I expect to win in Kansas City, I don't think that option
will be open to me.
THE ECONOMY
[13.] Q. Mr. President, Ronald Reagan says your claims that the state of
the economy is good are false. He says the country is $95 billion more in
debt than it was a year ago and goes further into debt at the rate of $2 billion
a week. Can any President really get the Nation out of debt?
THE PRESIDENT. I believe that the policies that I have of restraining the
growth of Federal spending, cutting that growth in Federal spending by better
than 50 percent and, at the same time, saving, if the Congress goes along with
my budget that I have submitted, we can have a balanced budget by fiscal year
1979. And the Governor's accusations about the economy are totally without
foundation.
We have taken this economy from a year ago-where we were in the midst
of the worst economic recession for the last 40 years-and by the Ford
administration doing the right thing, we have now cut the rate of inflation
by 75 percent. For the first 3 months of this year, the rate of inflation is under
3 percent. And we have regained 2,600,000 jobs throughout the United States
in the last 12 months. Furthermore, for the month of March, we have the most
people gainfully employed in this country-86,700,000 people.
I should think Governor Reagan would applaud this kind of healthy economy
instead of trying to scare people as he apparently is trying to do. The economy
is sound, it is getting better and is getting better. And the way he talks, he seems
to invite economic difficulties, and I think that's the wrong approach.
DIVISIONS IN THE REPUBLICAN PARTY
[14.] Q. Mr. President, in the last 48 hours or so you have indicated that
you think Ronald Reagan has been rash with some of the issues, and you have
1440
