[556]
June 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
The growing world population will put an increasing strain on the resources
of our planet. The United States will continue, along with other donors and
international organizations, to assist worldwide efforts to carry out the recom-
mendations of the World Population Plan of Action approved at the World
Population Conference in Bucharest in 1974.
Other resource problems require urgent attention. For example, tropical
forests are being threatened by the pressures of population and industrial
demand. We call upon the countries of the world to cooperate in conserving this
life-sustaining resource.
The problem of adequate and safe water resources is significant throughout
the world. It is fitting that this problem will be the subject of a special United
Nations Water Conference to be held in Mar Del Plata, Argentina, in 1977.
A United Nations Conference on Decertification later that year will seek solu-
tions to the spreading problem of arid lands. Increased demands for fresh water
from agriculture, industry, and growing populations force the people of the
world to seek solutions together to critical water problems.
As we celebrate World Environment Day, the United Nations Conference on
Human Settlements is meeting in Vancouver, Canada. Representatives of nearly
all the people on Earth are assembled there to considered the quality of the
human environment in its broadest perspective, to deal with those forces which
bear on the quality of life for individual human beings. We wish the Conference
the greatest success.
On this occasion we also reaffirm our support of the United Nations Environ-
ment Program (UNEP). We place particular importance on UNEP's Earth-
watch program to assess trends in the Earth's environmental quality, and will
continue to develop and coordinate effective U.S. participation in Earthwatch.
As we look forward to our third century as a nation, we must keep a global
perspective. We must recognize the inescapable interdependence of human
beings and the dependence of all on the fragile planet we share.
557
Statement Announcing the Recipients of the National Medal of
Science Awards for 1975. June 4, 1976
THE National Medal of Science is the Nation's highest award for outstand-
ing achievement in science and engineering. I am most pleased to announce
1788
