[325]
April 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
THE PRESIDENT. I do not believe in the decriminalization of marijuana. I have
said that many, many times. There is no conclusive evidence that I have seen.
Much research has been undertaken. I see no preponderance of the evidence
which indicates to me that marijuana doesn't have an adverse, potential impact
on a person's health. Until there is that kind of evidence, I strongly believe-I
am against the decriminalizaton of marijuana.
TEXAS PRIMARY ELECTION
[9.] Q. Mr. President, before coming to Texas you indicated that you felt you
were coming as the underdog. How do you feel you will leave?
THE PRESIDENT. I am greatly encouraged, but I still think we are the underdog.
I am getting more optimistic, because we have had a great response since we
have been in Texas yesterday, and the response today so far has been equally
good.
We have a fine leader of our organization in Senator John Tower. We have
a wonderful group of volunteer workers. I think we have the right policies not
only for Texas, but for the country. So as we move closer and closer to that very
crucial primary, I think we will do increasingly better-and we might surprise
some people.
DEREGULATION OF NATURAL GAS AND oil
[10.] Q. Mr. President, you said that you have the right policies for Texas.
Your signing of the energy bill has not been popular in Texas. How are you
justifying this to the Texas oil industry?
THE PRESIDENT. I think a little history might be helpful. In January of 1975,
in the State of the Union Message, I came out wholeheartedly for the deregula-
tion of oil as well as the deregulation of natural gas. As a matter of fact, I said
that Congress should authorize the deregulation of oil by April 1, 1975.
Unfortunately, the Congress did not follow my recommendations of better
than a year ago. After laboring long, from January through most of December,
the Congress sent me a bill that included 4 of the 13 energy proposals that I
recommended, in a mix of good and bad in the remainder of the legislation.
As I analyzed the pros and cons, it seemed to me that the best choice for me
under those circumstances was to sign the bill and to try and get the Congress
to do what I had recommended in January, which was not only the deregulation
of oil but the deregulation of natural gas.
I think we are making headway. We have had some disappointments, but my
firm, personal conviction today is what I recommended to the Congress in
January of 1975.
1070
