[599]
June 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
resources of the United States undertake immediately to identify the persons or
groups responsible for this vicious act.
Those responsible for these brutal assassinations must be brought to justice.
At the same time, we must continue our policy of seeking a peaceful solution in
Lebanon. That is the way we can best honor the brave men who gave their lives
for this country and for the cause of peace.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:05 p.m. to reporters
assembled in the Briefing Room at the White
House.
On June 17, 1976, the White House announced
that the President had designated Ambassador L.
Dean Brown as his Personal Representative to go
to Damascus, Syria, to accompany the bodies of
slain American officials when they were returned
to the United States.
600
Exchange With Canadian Prime Minister Pierre Elliott Trudeau
Upon Accepting Canada's Bicentennial Gift to the United States.
June 16, 1976
PRIME MINISTER TRUDEAU. Mr. President, we have a little gift we want to give
you on the occasion of the Bicentennial-it is of our boundaries. People usually
think of boundaries as dividing people. Well, I won't repeat the stories about the
unprotected frontiers, but in this case we will see in pictures what everyone
knows on your side and on our side of the boundary-that these boundaries
don't divide us; they bring us together.
By the pictures, we see that Canadians and Americans on both sides of the
borders in their institutions, in their way of life, in their physical aspects are very,
very close together. And we thought that would be a good way to indicate to
you and to your countrymen our friendship on the occasion of this Bicentennial.
One of your famous poets, Robert Frost, talked about good fences making
good neighbors. Well, in this case, it is the good neighbors that make good
boundaries. And we have got some good photographers here who made these
good boundaries into good pictures, and we would like to offer them to you. And
I understand they will be offered also.
Thank you Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. May we open it and look at some of the
PRIME MINISTER TRUDEAU. Let's look at some of them. I hope we will find
somewhere the boundaries are—oh, look. This does not bind you to anything.
These are boundaries which were drawn-[laughter]-in case of land bound-
aries, I think we pretty well agree on them.
1886
