[481]
May 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
We have had good success in coming out of a recession, the worst in 4 years,
where we now are well on the road to sound prosperity. And most impor-
tantly, I think, we have restored the confidence of the American people in the
White House.
We have done all of this in 21 months of success. And I think the American
people are interested in progress, in substance rather than in campaigning.
I will be glad to answer some questions.
REPORTER. Sir, the mere fact that you brought Ambassador Cooper in with
you today, or is here with you today, does this mean you feel like maybe you are
in bad straits here in Kentucky? Mr. Reagan is fairly popular here.
THE PRESIDENT. I think we will do all right in Kentucky. I have been here a
number of times. I have been up to Tim Lee Carter's district in London. They
had 3,000 people up there a couple of years ago. I have been in Louisville a
good many times, Lexington, and I think we have got a lot of friends in Ken-
tucky. And I am delighted to see some good friends like Ambassador Cooper
and Thruston Morton and Tim Lee Carter. They are good friends of mine, and
I think I have got a few others, so I think we will do all right.
Q. Mr. President, it was one of our Congressmen here, Gene Snyder, who
is responsible for releasing Ambassador Bunker's' testimony on the Panama
Canal negotiations. Do you think that was a proper move on his part?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I wouldn't pass judgment on whether it was proper
or not.
Q. He hasn't got you in trouble, has he?
THE PRESIDENT. Oh, no, no, because we have been very frank about what the
aim and objective was. We were negotiating as President Johnson did, as Presi-
dent Nixon did for a long, long-term 50-year treaty. There was nothing deceptive
about it. I understood that Congressman Snyder did it for whatever reasons
he felt-good or bad-but there was no attempt on our part to decide other-
wise as to what we were aiming at. We were doing the same thing that
Mr. Johnson had, what Mr. Nixon was doing. And I am glad that Senator
Barry Goldwater supports me in this effort.
Q. Mr. President, do you agree with some of those who say that the type
of campaign that Ronald Reagan has been waging has hurt the Republican
Party in its chances for victory in November?
THE PRESIDENT. I wouldn't describe it as that. He has been campaigning
full time. He doesn't have the responsibility that I have, but I am not going
'Ellsworth Bunker, U.S. Ambassador at Large.
1586
