[323]
April 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
real mission in life to save their classmates, their families from a very horrible
fate.
Now, looking over the wide range of drug efforts, it can be seen that the
Federal Government must play a very essential role in dealing with law en-
forcement problems that are national in scope in mobilizing the enormous
potential resources of State and local localities.
We are pursuing an active program now in building upon a white paper
which was issued just a few months ago. We plan to accelerate that program
in the future. We will step up our interdiction efforts. We shall step up our
law enforcement efforts. We shall step up our efforts at prevention, treatment,
and rehabilitation, and we shall stick with it as long as we must to get the results
that are essential and vital to the history and the health of this country.
Now, let me add this final note-before getting into the final note that it
was going to be the final note. [Laughter] I couldn't help but gather from the
conversation at the dinner table tonight that some in this audience were very
pleased with the firm action under the leadership of John Tower and several
others in the Senate in defeating, or in effect killing, for this session of the
Congress at least, the no-fault insurance legislation. The administration helped
a little. We didn't like it either, so congratulations, John.
The final note, if I might. Everything we do, whether in combating drugs, in
solving the problems of our economy, or in regaining energy independence for
America, you know as well as I that we cannot rely solely upon Washington,
D.C. This country is great, not because of what government has done for people,
but what people have done for themselves.
There is one very fundamental truth that I would like to repeat because it
means a great deal to all of you as citizens, but it means something to you par-
ticularly as lawyers. We should never forget this fundamental truth-that a
government big enough to give us everything we want is a government big
enough to take from us everything we have.
Now, as we take a final look at the total effort, cooperation with the Mexi-
can Government and the prevention of the growing or planting of the poppies,
to the interdiction at the border, to more law enforcement, tougher action in
the courts, prevention, rehabilitation, when we mobilize all of those resources-
Federal, State, and local-we in government have made the most massive effort
that we possibly can.
But all of that effort will be of little use unless the American people themselves
rally and fight this scourge of drug abuse within their own communities and
1062
