May 18
[495]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
the American people have extended to me since
the beginning of my visit.
Now, this is the fifth time we have met in 18
months, and during the past 2 days we have had
useful and trusting talks together. We are getting
to know each other well, and I would like to
take this opportunity to tell you how delighted I
am of the contacts and, if I may say, of the friend-
ship that has been established between us.
A few weeks ago, Mr. President, you said that
French-American relations were better today than
they had ever been. I share your view wholeheart-
edly, but I would like to add that we owe this state
of affairs largely to you, to your personal conviction
and your breadth of vision. And I hope that I will
not be accused of interfering in your country's do-
mestic affairs if I testify to this here, but that is a
risk I am prepared to run.
I agreed to make this visit for obvious reasons.
Given the role France played two centuries ago,
it was only fitting that France would be first in
joining in the celebrations for the Bicentennial of
the United States and sharing with special feeling
the joy of the American people. But something
else struck me. Although our countries are linked
by so many memories and share the same values
and belong to the same alliance and are so often
led by major world affairs to exchange views and
pool their efforts, nevertheless our countries'
knowledge and understanding of each other is
too often insufficient and superficial, and even
their trade relations are not commensurate with
the place each one holds in the world economy.
Now, such a situation is paradoxical. It is also harm-
ful and should be corrected.
For this reason, lastly, I hope that there will be
more and more contacts and meetings between our
two countries and that, in fact, will be the aim of
the two foundations which have just been estab-
lished, one in New York and the other in Paris, in
order to promote relations between the United
States and France. Under the guidance of well-
known figures, they will work together closely to
further exchanges and dialog between our two
countries.
Now, one of the objectives of my visit to which
I am most attached will thus be achieved. And I
know, Mr. President, that it meets your wishes, too;
that is, that France and the United States should
know each other better in order to understand each
other better.
Our two countries will thus be able to sail in
company just as they did when the first French
fleet came to fight by your side. And in fact, the
arrangement of the tables for this dinner is sym-
bolic in that it reproduces the battle order.
I can't help but pause here just to say how
much I admire the freshness and the naiveness of
the sentiments of the men of those times. I would
like to draw your attention to the menu card and
the engraving on the first page, which is a picture
that I chose myself among the archives in our
country and the engraving commemorates the in-
dependence of the United States.
The very first line, which is dated the 4th of
July 1776, the Thirteen Colonies that since have
become known as the United States-well, I can
but confirm that since that time they certainly have
become very well-known fact as the United States
of America.
And here I must also refer to the names of the
French ships that came to aid of their American
allies. Here again we note the great variety in the
names of the ships which perhaps also reflect the
variety in the relationships between our two coun-
tries. I see that there is a ship called La Sensible,
and even Le Fantasque, and by a curious intuition
for those times, I see that there was also a ship
known as the Concorde. [Laughter] But perhaps
more to the point, I think you will agree is the
fact that La Victoire is among us.
So, it is in memory of that last ship that I
would now like to raise my glass in honor of the
President of the United States and Mrs. Ford, and
all the distinguished Americans who did us the
honor and pleasure of accepting our invitation and
also in honor of the great American people to
whom I say on this, their birthday, many happy
returns of the day.
1627
