[502]
May 22
Public Papers of the Presidents
And let me say this: Within 4 years, and with a solid mandate from you, we
can finish the job and make America truly secure for future generations.
I deeply appreciate this wonderful opportunity to come before you today and
talk about the policies that I have implemented—returning the peace, increasing
prosperity, restoring trust in the White House.
Today, America is at peace. Your sons are not being drafted, they are not dy-
ing in any battlefield anyplace in the world. My policies will maintain the
peace, secure the peace through strength and perseverance, and leave the legacy
of peace for our children, as well as our grandchildren.
I will continue my policies of cutting your taxes, expanding the private
economy, reducing bureaucracy and useless regulation, and restraining Federal
spending.
Federal taxes are too high. We cut Federal taxes last year, and I have recom-
mended to the Congress another $10 billion tax cut to begin July 1, including
an increase in the personal exemption from $750 per person to $1,000.
My policies have brought us from the depths of a recession to a sustained
recovery, and will ensure that runaway inflation never again robs us or our loved
ones of the rewards of honest work and lifetime savings.
I will pursue the steady course that has led us from war to peace, from a
recession to recovery, from cynicism to confidence, from faith to fear (fear to
faith).
Finally, I will finish the most important job-restoration of trust in the Presi-
dency itself. I did not seek this office, but neither will I shirk it. I need your sup-
port to ensure peace, to restore prosperity, to restore the confidence that is so
important for 215 million Americans.
The future really belongs to those who come after us. Americans have always
wanted life to be better for our children than it was for us, because life for us
has been better than it was for our parents.
What do I see ahead for this wonderful country of ours? I see a strong and
confident America, secure in a strength that cannot alone be counted in mega-
tons, an America rejoicing in riches that cannot be eroded by inflation or by
taxation. I see an America where life is valued for its quality as well as for its
comfort, where the individual is inviolate in his constitutional rights, where
the government serves and the people rule.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:17 p.m. in Library Park. He was introduced by Representative John R
Dellenback of Oregon 1966-74.
1640
