[392]
April 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
the 1974 Coach of the Year Award from the American Football Coaches Asso-
ciation last year.
Baylor has a very great right to be proud of Coach Teaff, and I congratulate
him as well as you. Now, before I go any further, to all of you CB'ers in the
audience, I bring a special hello from First Mama-[laughter]—and second-
arily from First Papa, too.
But, I am deeply grateful to have the opportunity to meet with you today,
and you know they say anything is possible in Texas. I always leave this great
State with a great optimism and a very positive attitude. But, before I get to
your questions, let me say a few words concerning the future of our country.
We have come a long, long way since the birth of the United States two cen-
turies ago. Yet, we have a long way to go in the third and the fourth and on and
on. We began our first century with a political experiment, a daring and a very
unique experiment in the concept of self-rule.
Our first century saw the firm establishment of a free system of government,
based on the right of the individual to determine his own destiny. That concept
was carried into the second century of our great Nation and along with it, we
transformed an underdeveloped country into the mightiest and the strongest
and most productive nation in the history of mankind.
As we begin our third century, we should appreciate the wisdom and fore-
sight of our Founding Fathers, and we should reaffirm the contributions as we
confirm our efforts to secure lasting freedom, lasting peace, and lasting
prosperity.
It is vitally important that we preserve the individual freedom of all Ameri-
cans, but beyond that, we should strive to improve the quality of life for the
individual. We must devise safeguards for the individualism of every American
to protect personal freedoms in our individualities from the pressures of mass
government, big or organized labor, from massive education, or massive
communication.
We must not smother the individual expression and creativity that exists
in each and every one of us, and we must not stifle individual opportunity.
The opportunity that you have to pursue a higher education is a very, very
important one.
But, what about the opportunities for a fulfilling career in a stable world
once you leave this great university campus? My new budget for the Federal
Government was designed to bolster our economy by generating new jobs,
not make-work, dead-end Government-sponsored jobs, but jobs in the private
1324
