[380]
April 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
have received life sentences and 3 received 40-year sentences, again not a bad
record.
Let me make very clear that we do not pursue this swift justice in these very
heavy sentences out of vindictiveness. I believe, in general, we must do every-
thing we can to rehabilitate those who have committed crimes and to help them
regain their place in society. But, for these career criminals, rehabilitation has
obviously failed. These individuals have all been to one or more correctional
institutions, and they have demonstrated for them at least rehabilitation pro-
grams have served no useful purpose.
Therefore, our duty—and I emphasize our duty-is to protect the innocent
victim and potential victims by separating the career criminals from our society
and keeping them confined for a longer and longer time.
Through programs such as this, we can he', relieve the American people of
a terrible threat to their lives and to their safety. By combating crime we reaf-
firm the right of every American to enjoy life, liberty, and the pursuit of
happiness.
We must not be content until the potential criminal faces arrest so certain,
punishment so heavy, that he will lose his taste for acts of crime and acts of
violence.
Let me summarize the actions that we have taken to reduce crime in Amer-
ica. In addition to instituting the career criminal program and recommending
the extension of funds for the Law Enforcement Assistance Administration,
my budget that is for fiscal 1977 provides funds for four new Federal prisons.
I have directed the Department of Justice to develop new programs to protect
and to assist the witnesses in Federal criminal proceedings while fully support-
ing the right of the law-abiding citizens to own firearms.
I have recommended legislation which would make mandatory sentences
for those who use a gun in the commission of a Federal crime. I have intensified
the fight against hard drugs, which we all know are directly connected in many
cases with crimes.
Just yesterday I sent to Congress a special message on drug abuse calling for
mandatory minimum prison sentences for those convicted of trafficking in hard
drugs. I have consulted with the leaders of Mexico, Colombia, and Turkey to
urge stronger action by them in cooperating with us to halt the flow of hard
drugs into the United States.
I have recommended that the Congress increase funds to get drug addicts into
the treatment and out of crime. We are spending 10 times more Federal funds
1268
