June 6
[566]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
THE PRESIDENT. Thataboy!
Let me summarize briefly why I think I ought to be the Republican candidate
for the Presidency. In 22 months, after inheriting a situation where our economy
was on the downside, where our allies abroad were uncertain, our adversaries
abroad weren't sure whether they could undertake some adventurism, and
where there had been a loss of confidence and trust in the White House, in 22
months we've turned it all around. We have restored confidence and trust
in the White House with an open, candid, forthright administration. And I am
proud of it. And despite a Democratic Congress, we have turned the economy
around so that everything that's supposed to be going up is going up, and
everything that's supposed to be going down is going down. And I'm proud of
that, too.
And one other comment: Because we are strong militarily and because the
American people have the will to carry out our foreign policy, we are at peace
today. And I remind each and every one of you, there isn't an American boy
dying and fighting on any foreign soil under this administration. And let me
add, parenthetically, the Ford administration isn't going to send any American
troops to Rhodesia.
And now let me thank you all. As I said at the outset, you are the heart and
the soul and the producers in the Republican Party. I've been the beneficiary
in a number of elections of what my friends at home, just like all of you, have
done on my behalf, and I could never thank them enough. But let me thank
all of you in advance of what you will do so we can win on Tuesday, win at
Kansas City, and win in November for the good of the country.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:20 p.m. at the
Town and Campus Site. In his opening remarks,
he referred to Thomas Kean, chairman of the
New Jersey President Ford Committee, Representa-
tives Millicent Fenwick and Matthew J. Rinaldo,
and Dave Norcross, Republican senatorial candi-
date for New Jersey.
566
Exchange With Reporters on Arrival at Cleveland, Ohio.
June 6, 1976
IT IS great to be back in Ohio-Cleveland. I especially appreciate Governor
Rhodes, Mayor Ralph Perk, and my good friend from the Congress, Chuck
Mosher, and all of the other dignitaries who are here from the party. We are
1813
