[321]
April 9
Public Papers of the Presidents
subject—we have already started the process, under Frank Zarb," to get rid of
the various price controls under the energy legislation that was passed last
December.
Mr. Zarb has filed the necessary documents in the FEDERAL Register to get
rid of residual oil controls. He is next going to do it for distillates and for gaso-
line. And shortly, we will start, under the law, as quickly as possible, to under-
take the 40-month period of decontrol with 10 percent as the first step. That is
something that is on the way.
And if I can say parenthetically, I know that my signing that bill was some-
what controversial last December, but I want you to remember this: In January
of last year, a year ago, I proposed the total deregulation of oil as well as natural
gas. In fact, my recommendation to the Congress was that we should decontrol
oil by April 1, period, across the board. Unfortunately, the Congress rejected
that and extended it until December 22, when the other law became effective.
And if we hadn't signed that bill, the distinct possibility, the overwhelming
odds were that you would have had a continuation of the existing law, which
was much more rigid, much more inflexible. And what we finally got is not
what I wanted, believe me, because I recommended total decontrol of both
natural gas and oil. But with the opposition controlling the Congress 2 to 1, you
just don't turn a spigot and get what you are after.
Q. Thank you, Mr. President. Speaking on behalf of some of those of us
who received those 5,200 forms, we are pleased and proud to have you here in
Dallas, and we hope you will be back some time later this year and, perhaps
more importantly, sir, we hope you will be back next year.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:07 p.m. in the Inter
national Ballroom at the Fairmont Hotel at a
business-management briching sponsored by
Southern Methodist University School of Business.
In his opening remarks, he referred to James H
Zumberg, president of the university, Adlene Harri-
son, acting mavor of Dallas, Alan Coleman, dean of
322
the School of Business, Edwin Cox, chairman of the
board of trustees, C. A. Tatum, Jr., member of the
board of governors, Dr. C. Jackson Grayson, Jr.,
former dean of the School of Business, and Trammell
Crow, member of the board of trustees, Southern
Methodist University and cochairman of the finance
committee of the Texas President Ford Committee
Remarks at a President Ford Committee Reception
in Dallas. April 9, 1976
THANK YOU very, very much, John. And let me thank Trammell Crow, and
let me especially thank Barney Young and Ed Haggar, but let me add a very
Administrator of the Federal Energy Administration
1054
