[621]
June 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
by the positive results achieved in some areas at UNCTAD IV in Nairobi. New
measures taken in the IMF have made a substantial contribution to stabilizing
the export earnings of the developing countries and to helping them finance
their deficits.
We attach the greatest importance to the dialogue between developed and de-
veloping nations in the expectation that it will achieve concrete results in areas
of mutual interest. And we reaffirm our countries' determination to participate
in this process in the competent bodies, with a political will to succeed, looking
toward negotiations, in appropriate cases. Our common goal is to find practical
solutions which contribute to an equitable and productive relationship among
all peoples.
NOTE: Participants in the 2-day conference were
President Ford, President Valéry Giscard d'Estaing
of France, Prime Minister Pierre Elliott Trudeau
of Canada, Chancellor Helmut Schmidt of the
Federal Republic of Germany, Prim: Minister Aldo
Moro of Italy, Prime Minister Takeo Miki of
Japan, and Prime Minister James Callaghan of
the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland.
The text of the joint declaration was released at
Dorado Beach, Puerto Rico.
622
Message to the Congress Transmitting Annual Report on
Aeronautics and Space Activities. June 29, 1976
To the Congress of the United States:
I am pleased to transmit this report on the Nation's progress in space and
aeronautics during 1975. This report is provided in accordance with Section
206 of the National Aeronautics and Space Act of 1958, as amended (42 U.S.C.
2476).
1975 was another year of continued progress in the Nation's space and aero-
nautics activities. It marked significant accomplishments in many areas.
Earth orbiting satellites continued to bring new and increased benefits in a
variety of applications. Two additional international communications satellites
were launched, expanding the already impressive international satellite com-
munications capability. A second domestic commercial communications satel-
lite was put into operation. Military satellite communications were enhanced.
In addition, a new system of satellites for global weather reporting was initiated,
providing reports every thirty minutes on weather across half the globe.
Landsat 2 was orbited to join Landsat 1 to provide additional earth sensing
data to explore potential uses in a wide range of activities, including crop fore-
1926
