|627|
June 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
Public Liaison, the Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Federal
Reserve System, the Chairman of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board
Subject: President's Committee on Urban Development and Neighborhood
Revitalization
I am today establishing a Committee on Urban Development and Neighbor-
hood Revitalization to examine urban problems and to make recommendations
to improve current Federal programs in order to revitalize urban and neighbor-
hood areas. The Committee will study the problems both from a broad Federal
policy perspective and from the perspective of those who live in urban neighbor-
hoods. Specifically, the Committee will be responsible for:
1. Conducting a comprehensive review of all major Federal programs which
have an impact on the cities and their neighborhoods and reporting results to
the President;
2. Seeking the perspectives of local officials and neighborhood groups on
Federal programs which affect them;
3. Developing recommendations to the President and the Congress for
changes in Federal policies and programs affecting cities and their neighbor-
hoods in order to place maximum decision-making responsibility at the local
level, to remove legal and administrative obstacles to exercise this authority, and
to provide for better coordination and delivery of Federal programs.
The Committee will be chaired by the Secretary of Housing and Urban
Development, and include the Secretary of the Treasury, the Attorney General,
the Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary of Commerce, the Secretary of
Labor, the Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare, the Secretary of
Transportation, the Director of Office of Management and Budget, the Admin-
istrator of the Small Business Administration, the Director of Community Serv-
ices Administration, the Executive Director of the Domestic Council, the As-
sistant to the President for Public Liaison; and, by invitation, the Chairman
of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and the Chairman of
the Federal Home Loan Bank Board.
GERALD R. FORD
628
Remarks Upon Signing an Income Tax Reduction
Extension Bill. June 30, 1976
I AM signing today a bill which will prevent your withholding taxes from
going up tomorrow. Last October, I asked the Congress to reduce Federal in-
1934
