[376]
April 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
think that's an issue that we're going to lose. We're on the right side, and he's
on the wrong side.
Q. Do you believe Mr. Humphrey may be your opponent
THE PRESIDENT. I think to a large extent it depends on what happens in Penn-
sylvania and the word I got on the plane was that Carter was leading 36 to 26
over Jackson. If Carter wins in Pennsylvania, I don't see how the smoke-filled
rooms and the Democratic Party can take it away from him.
Q. Would you rather face Mr. Humphrey or Mr. Carter?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't really think it makes any difference. We'll win in
November anyhow.
Q. Mr. President, is the country ready for a woman Vice-Presidential
candidate?
THE PRESIDENT. I think there could be a possibility of a woman Vice President.
We have a lot of very talented women in this country, and I think it is premature
to say what the Vice-Presidential nominee might be. But over 50 percent of the
population are women, and so there must be a lot of talented gals that I think
could qualify.
Q. Mr. President, you are in beef country here in Texas at the present time.
What about the possibility of limiting meat imports to the United States?
THE PRESIDENT. We're in the process right now, and have been for the last
several months, of negotiating import quotas with the major countries that are
traditionally the importers into the United States. We expect to get an agreement
that I think will provide for a good trigger point, and a good quota limitation,
and hopefully within the next few weeks or a month we ought to be able to
achieve that. And I think that will protect our beef producers.
REPORTER. Thank you, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Nice to see you all. Thank you.
NOTE: The exchange began at 10 u9 pm at Gregg County Airps at
377
Remarks at a President Ford Committee Reception in
Tyler, Texas. April 28, 1976
Thank you very, very much, John. Mr. Chairman, Madam Chairman, all of
the wonderful workers here in this eastern part of Texas:
It is nice to be in the rose capital of the world, and I guess there are a few people
here from Marshall, so I ought to recognize them. But it is wonderful to be here,
1248
