[417]
May 3
Public Papers of the Presidents
able distribution of the funds. And in education, as you undoubtedly know
better than I, the problems of education in Indiana aren't necessarily the prob-
lems of local education in Tennessee or those in Califormia are not identical
with those of New York.
So, what we want to do is to give more money to local education with local
authorities having more flexibility so that the end result is that educators are not
filling out applications, they are teaching children. That's what we want.
Well, we are working hard to get our program through, and I appreciate
the support of your State school superintendents' organization. And I hope we
can get the support of local school administrators because it is just as important
to them as it is to you at the State level. And certainly the principal beneficiary
would be the students, the children, and that is why I think all of us are working
as hard as we can to convince the Congress to do something about it.
Q. Hi. My name is Andrea Asburg and my grandfather is city councilman
in Lebanon, and he brought me with him.
THE PRESIDENT. It is nice to see you, Andrea.
Q. And we have to have an excuse-[laughter)—
THE PRESIDENT. You want me to write you an excuse? [Laughter]
Q. No, my mother already wrote it. And would you please sign it?
[Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. I better read it before I sign it. [Laughter]
Thank you very, very much, Andrea. It's nice to see you. Good luck to you.
Q. Mr. President my name is Norman Tablar. I'm an Indianapolis lawyer.
I have a question about currently pending antitrust legislation which is of
concern to businessmen here in Indiana. As you know, Congress is currently
considering an antitrust package which includes a so-called parens patriae
provision which would enable a State attorney general to sue for damages
on behalf of citizens allegedly harmed by Federal antitrust violations. I know
that you have expressed reservations about this parens patriae concept. And
my question is, if a bill is passed which includes this provision will you veto it?
THE PRESIDENT. I am basically opposed to the concept of parens patriae,
particularly as it originally appeared in the House version and, as a result, we
worked with the House Committee on the Judiciary and got some major
modifications in that particular provision.
And for the benefit of those who might not know what we the original
thrust, it would give to the 50 States' attorney generals the right to sue on the
basis of Federal law. I think the Federal authorities ought to handle any antitrust
action predicated on Federal law.
1430
