[634]
July 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
awaits action on Capitol Hill. That proposal was part of my suggested efforts
across a wide front.
Since becoming President, I have supported and signed into law, legislation
prohibiting sex discrimination in housing, credit and education. Some of the
laws discriminating against women appear petty or even ridiculous. But the
fact is, they are all equally unjust, all equally demeaning to Americans, and all
equally inconsistent with the American philosophy of equality.
There are different ways to approach this problem. One would be to await the
ratification of the equal rights amendment. As you know, and as Jill has said, I
have long favored, voted for ERA, and I hope to see it a part of our Constitution
before too long.
But injustice cannot await upon politics, nor upon the lengthy public discus-
sion which has already delayed ratification of this constitutional amendment.
The time to act is now. Therefore, I have today directed the Attorney General to
develop, in consultation with other affected Federal agencies, a plan to review the
entire United States Code. The purpose will be to determine the need for revis-
ing sex-based provisions that are not justified in law nor supported by wise
policy.
And I encourage the Governors of all the States to initiate a similar review of
all State laws to bring them into harmony with our American philosophy of ab-
solute equality under the law.
Many outdated laws and statutes have already been identified and many of
you here today have taken part in that effort. I'm sure you will agree that the
time has come for a massive Federal effort in this particular area. I'm also con-
fident that the State conferences to be held by your Commission will help in this
process.
Another problem I would suggest for your attention at these respective confer-
ences is the widening earnings gap between men and women. This has extremely
serious implications not just for the women being denied the wages they deserve,
but for the entire American economy. It's a problem we will address in the im-
mediate future, a matter of priority for this administration.
The administration is firmly committed to legal and economic justice for
women. I speak now not only as President but also as a husband and father. I
prize the individuality and independence of two women in my family, and I
think their record is pretty clear in both resolves. Even if I wanted it differently,
it wouldn't be. [Laughter] I am proud that Betty has become a leader in her own
right, and I want to ensure that our daughter, Susan, will have the same free-
1948
