June 16
[598]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
and a related exchange of notes. Accordingly, I am transmitting herewith draft
legislation in the form of a Joint Resolution of the Congress for this purpose.
The United States and Turkey have long enjoyed a close mutual security re-
lationship under the North Atlantic Treaty, as well as bilateral cooperation in
accordance with Article III of that Treaty. The new Agreement, like its pred-
ecessor, the Defense Cooperation Agreement of 1969 which this Agreement
would supersede, implements the treaty. It has been signed as an executive agree-
ment. The Agreement was negotiated with the understanding that it would be
subject to Congressional approval and expressly provides that it shall not enter
into force until the parties exchange notes indicating approval of the Agreement
in accordance with their respective legal procedures. Full Congressional en-
dorsement of this Agreement will give new strength and stability to continuing
U.S.-Turkish security cooperation which has served as a vital buttress on
NATO's southeast flank for more than two decades.
The new Agreement is consistent with, but not identical to, the preceding
Defense Cooperation Agreement of 1969. Founded on mutual respect for the
sovereignty of the parties, the Agreement (Articles II and III) authorizes U.S.
participation in defense measures related to the parties' obligations arising out of
the North Atlantic Treaty. It is understood that when the Agreement enters into
force pursuant to Article XXI, activities will resume which were suspended by
the Government of Turkey in July 1975, when the Turkish Government re-
quested negotiation of a new defense cooperation agreement.
The Agreement provides a mutually acceptable framework for this important
security cooperation. The installations authorized by the Agreement will be
Turkish Armed Forces installations under Turkish command (Articles IV
and V). Article V clearly provides for U.S. command and control authority
over all U.S. armed forces personnel, other members of the U.S. national
element at each installation, and U.S. equipment and support facilities.
The installations shall be operated jointly. In order to facilitate this objective,
the United States is committed to a program of technical training of Turkish
personnel.
Other provisions of the Agreement deal with traditional operational and
administrative matters, including: operation and maintenance of the installa-
tions; ceilings on levels of U.S. personnel and equipment; import, export and
in-country supply procedures; status of forces and property questions.
Article XIX specifies the amounts of defense support which the United
States plans to provide Turkey during the first four years the Agreement
remains in force. We have provided such support to this important NATO
1883
