June 24
[615]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
appears to be the only way to provide the equal educational opportunity so long
and so tragically denied them.
To many other Americans who have struggled much of their lives and de-
voted most of their energies to seeking the best for their children, busing appears
to be a denial of an individual's freedom to choose the best school for his or
her children.
Whether busing helps school children get a better education is not a settled
question. The record is mixed. Certainly, busing has assisted in bringing about
the desegregation of our schools. But it is a tragic reality that, in some areas,
busing under court order has brought fear to both black students and white
students—and to their parents.
No child can learn in an atmosphere of fear. Better remedies to right Constitu-
tional wrongs must be found.
It is my responsibility, and the responsibility of the Congress, to address and
to seek to resolve this situation.
In the twenty-two years since the Supreme Court ordered an end to school
segregation, this country has made great progress. Yet we still have far to go.
To maintain progress toward the orderly elimination of illegal segregation
in our public schools, and to preserve—or, where appropriate, restore-com-
munity control of schools, I am proposing legislation to:
1. Require that a court in a desegregation case determine the extent to which
acts of unlawful discrimination have caused a greater degree of racial concen-
tration in a school or school system than would have existed in the absence of
such acts;
2. Require that busing and other remedies in school desegregation cases be
limited to eliminating the degree of student racial concentration caused by
proven unlawful acts of discrimination;
3. Require that the utilization of court-ordered busing as a remedy be limited
to a specific period of time consistent with the legislation's intent that it be an
interim and transitional remedy. In general, this period of time will be no longer
than five years where there has been compliance with the court order.
4. Create an independent National Community and Education Committee
to help any school community requesting citizen assistance in voluntarily resolv-
ing its school segregation problem.
Almost without exception, the citizens' groups both for and against busing
with which I have consulted told me that the proposed National Community
and Education Committee could be a positive addition to the resources currently
1911
