[531]
May 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
Let me just say we've got the momentum going. We got it back on the track
in Michigan and Maryland, and we apparently have it back on track with sev-
eral of the States that have reported already. We want that momentum going
from now until Kansas City, and California is important.
One thing I do want to dispel and end it right here and now-some rumors
were being spread. I can't tell you by whom, but they are totally unfounded.
Some people were saying or writing that Jerry Ford was not going to make a big
effort in California. That's not true, and after being here at Walnut Creek and
Contra Costa County and all the other places I have been, I am getting very
encouraged that an underdog can win in California.
That reception in Walnut Creek was one of the most inspirational and one of
the nicest that I have ever had an opportunity to be a part of. And I know all
of you helped, and I think you can express to your friends and neighbors in Wal-
nut Creek and the county how deeply grateful I am. I wish you would, because
I leave this county with warm, warm feelings and a feeling that, you know,
sometime maybe at the end of another 4 years we might come back and see you
on a more permanent basis.
Again, I want to thank Dan and Claudia and all of you. If I could just mingle
and shake hands—I have made enough speeches today, so I would just like to
say hello and thank all of you personally as well as meet you.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:23 p.m. at the
Elks Club. In his remarks, he referred to Daniel
Van Voorhis and Claudia Nemir, cochairmen of the
Contra Costa County President Ford Committer
532
Exchange With Reporters on Departure From San Jose,
California. May 26, 1976
GOOD MORNING, everybody. How are you this morning?
This is the end of a very exciting and, I think, very encouraging trip to Cali-
fornia, plus the very encouraging news that we got last night with the six pri-
maries where we won 50 percent of them. That's not a bad batting average,
certainly better than we anticipated and, I think, a little disappointing to our
opposition.
While I've been in California, I have had the opportunity to make a few
speeches and, at the same time, do a little listening. What have I heard? First,
I think the people of California want some reductions in Federal spending and
1734
