May 8
[447]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
man's stern concept of Presidential duty. "A President cannot always be popu-
lar”—he wrote after coming back home to Independence-"He has to be able to
say yes and no and, more often no to most of the propositions that are put up to
him by partisan groups and special interests who are always pulling at the White
House for one thing or another. I have never felt that popularity and glamour
are fundamentals on which the Chief Executive of the Government should oper-
ate. A man who is influenced by the polls or is afraid to make decisions which
make him unpopular is not a man to represent the value of the country,” so said
Harry Truman.
“I have always,” he said, “believed that the vast majority of the people want
to do what is right, and if the President is right, and can get through to the
people, he can always persuade them."
President Truman, like Abraham Lincoln, had a great faith in the ultimate
good sense of our people. He liked them, he talked their language, and in 1948
they went to the polls and proved that his faith was fully justified. I remember
that campaign very well, not because Governor Dewey was a native son of
Michigan, but because it was my first bid for elective office. I had a tough pri-
mary fight against an incumbent, and President Truman, unknowingly, did me
a favor by calling the Congress back in midsummer for his famous Turnip
Day Session.
This kept my primary opponent in Washington while I was busy campaign-
ing against the whole Washington establishment, which has always been a
good way to get there. But, the real difference between my primary opponent and
me was that he was a sincere isolationist and a leading opponent of the Marshall
plan and President Truman's other efforts to rebuild war-torn Europe and to
maintain the United States role of leadership in the world.
Like most of us just home from World War II, I went along with President
Truman and the United States Senator from my home town of Grand Rapids,
Michigan, Senator Arthur H. Vandenburg, in supporting a strong bipartisan
posture in defense and foreign affairs. I won.
And I went on supporting President Truman as a Member of the Congress
on the great issues affecting peace and national security, which is in the best
tradition of our history and ought never to be exploited or distorted for per-
sonal or partisan political advantage.
President Truman noted in his memoirs that in 1948 it was the worst possible
time for him to have to wage a political campaign because he was trying to
negotiate with the Russians and trying to get some kind of cease-fire in the Mid-
dle East. "There should be no break in bipartisan foreign policy of the United
1515
