April 29
[387]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
room, Democratic brokers' convention, and I think the public would object to
that. And so unless they find some other formula, it seems to me that Carter
certainly has the edge at the present time by a substantial margin.
Now, if he is the nominee, I think my overall moderate, middle-of-the-road
philosophy, both at home and abroad, will meet the challenge in the South
as it will in the rest of the country. And we will keep on that, what I think is a
constructive policy. And the voters in the South, in my judgment, compared
to someone who hasn't had experience, who has not dealt with the hard decisions
in the Oval Office will mean that we can be successful in November.
OIL COMPANY DIVESTITURE
[14.] Q. Mr. President, Ann Broderick, KRBE News.
There has been talk of getting a divestiture bill through Congress this year.
What are your feelings in regard to divestiture, and could you support such a
bill?
THE PRESIDENT. Any divestiture bill that I have seen I would oppose. I would
oppose it for this reason: We have analyzed all of the various divestiture pro-
posals that have been submitted against two criteria.
First, would a divestiture bill reduce the price of petroleum products to the
consumer? The answer is no. A divestiture bill would not reduce the price of
gasoline, would not reduce the price of residual oil, would not reduce the price
of distillates. And secondly, would a divestiture bill, under any circumstances,
stimulate more domestic production of crude oil? The answer is no, because
divestiture would undercut the capability of the American petroleum industry
to go out and explore and drill for more domestic oil, and we need it very
badly. So, when you measure these divestiture bills by those two criteria, you
come to the conclusion that those divestiture bills ought to be defeated.
POSSIBILITY OF FORD-REAGAN DEBATE
[15.] Q. Mr. President, good morning. Tom Jarriel with ABC.
THE PRESIDENT. Good morning, Tom.
Q. Mr. President, you have said several times here this morning that the
public deserves to know the facts, and in the debate over national defense issues
that Mr. Reagan is using simplified one-liners, and the issue should be met head-
on. Would not the best way to meet the issue head-on be for you and he to
share a platform and debate this very vital issue? And if one could be arranged,
would you welcome a debate?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, it seems to me my proposal for continued military
1305
