[565]
June 6
Public Papers of the Presidents
it looks like. We've got the State of New Jersey with 67 delegates; we have
the State of Ohio with 97, and the State of California with 167. I think it would
be a tremendous beginning-because your polls close, I understand, carlier than
the others--if we could have a clean sweep of New Jersey on Tuesday. That
isn't just going to happen. We've got good delegates. I think I'm a good candi-
date. But the only way you win in this game is to get people to the polls.
And let me tell you why we need all 67 delegates to the convention in Kansas
City. We've got 805 delegates; we've got 325 more to go. And if the State of
New Jersey comes up with 67, that's a big push toward that magic number of
1,130.
But let's look down the road a minute. There is absolutely no question in the
minds of any Members of the House or Senate, there is no question in the
minds of political experts around the country, that President Ford can win on
November 2 and my Republican opponent can't win on November 2.
Now, let's take a look at history. I can remember very vividly in 1964, going
into that election we had about 190 Republican Members of the House of Rep-
resentatives. We got clobbered in 1964. We lost about 50-some Republican
Members of the House of Representatives, and we lost some Senators. We now
have only about 145 Republican Members of the House and about 32 Republican
Members of the Senate. And if we have a repetition of 1964, the numbers of the
Republican side of the aisle on the House as well as in the Senate will be cut
tremendously. We don't want that. And if President Ford is leading the ticket
for the Republican Party, I can assure you we will pick up Republican Members
of the Congress and won't lose any. But I think it might even go a little deeper
than that. I don't recall the precise figures in New Jersey, but I suspect that in
the 1964 election a lot of New Jersey freeholders weren't reelected, and I suspect
a lot of other New Jersey candidates lost in 1964.
So, if you want the strength of the party at the local level, at the State level,
and at the congressional level and at the Presidential level to carry on and do
the kind of a job that you want done, you better get 67 New Jersey delegates for
Jerry Ford on Tuesday.
Now, let me give you a couple of good reasons why I think you can go to
those people that live in your neighborhood, or you professional people who
associate with your lawyer, doctor, friends, or the school teachers, or the people
that work in any one of our occupations. We've got a job to do in the next 48
hours. You've got to sell people, and you've got to make sure, you have to
make positive that they get to the polls.
AUDIENCE MEMBER. It will be done.
1812
