April 28
[385]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
THE B-I BOMBER
[4.] Q. Mr. President, my question is, part of the defense bill—part of the
14-percent increase in your defense budget included the new B-1 bomber. I saw
a report on it on television a couple of days ago, and it was reported that it wasn't
performing as they expected. Do you still believe the United States needs a new
bomber like this?
THE PRESIDENT. I certainly believe that the United States needs a follow-on
bomber to the B-52. We have roughly 400 to 500 B-52's operational today. Some
of them are 15 to 20 years of age. I don't believe it's right for a President, as
Commander in Chief, to keep sending out our pilots and crews in aircraft that
have had the stress and the strain that the older B-52's have had.
I don't think it is right and proper, and furthermore, if we are to have a flex-
ible strategic capability, we have to have ballistic missiles on the one hand, we
have to have nuclear-powered submarines on the other, and we have to have our
long-range, high-performance bombers.
The B-52's in a period of time ahead are going to be outmoded and outworn.
And we have to have a B-1 in order to replace those B-52's. We anticipate buy-
ing about 255, as I recall the figure. We are in the final testing stages of the B-1.
Everything appears at this stage to be performing as the specifications required,
and if they are completed, and the testing is successful, we will go ahead in
production. And in anticipation of that, I recommended for the next fiscal year's
budget $1,500 million for the B-1 production in the next 12 months.
ENERGY INDEPENDENCE PROGRAM
[5.] Q. Mr. President, my question is, about 2 years ago, at the height of the
oil embargo, we imported about 30 percent, or one-third of our foreign oil. And
when this supply of oil was cut off, it severely weakened our economic standing,
standard of living, and things like this.
Now we import almost 60 percent of foreign oil, and we depend for 60 percent
of our energy from the OPEC nations, and obviously we have become twice as
dependent on foreign oil. But you have proposed, in order to aid this problem,
Project Independence. Yet we have changed from 30 percent dependence to 60
percent. Project Independence doesn't seem to be working. I would like to ask
you what other system you are going to have to change the problem?
The President. You are essentially correct. In 1973, when the oil embargo
resulting from the war in the Middle East took place, the United States was
importing roughly 30-to-31 percent of all oil consumed in the United States. We
had an oil embargo, the war was ended, the embargo ended. But in the mean-
1293
