[576]
June 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
576
Exchange With Reporters in Springfield, Ohio. June 7, 1976
GOOD AFTERNOON. It's great to be in Bud Brown's district with the Gov-
ernor. We have had a very good day, as I think most of you would agree who
have traveled with us-exceptionally large crowds, friendly audiences. And I
think it looks real optimistic for tomorrow.
Do you have any questions?
REPORTER. Mr. President, what will you do after tomorrow's primaries to
increase your chances at the convention?
THE PRESIDENT. We have a number of State conventions that have to take
their final action. It is possible-it is not certain yet-that we will visit some of
these State conventions, because we certainly want to maximize our vote and
be sure we get the nomination on the first ballot.
Q. Which States might you visit?
THE PRESIDENT. We really haven't decided yet.
Q. Mr. President, you keep saying Ronald Reagan can't win, but in the
popular vote he's won just about as many votes as you have.
THE PRESIDENT. If you talk to the Members of Congress who have run in races
all over the country, about 9 out of 10 of them would agree with me that my
being on the ticket would significantly help their reelection and help to get
more Republicans. And they are convinced from their practical experience that
I can win and that it is very, very doubtful if my opponent can.
Q. Mr President, you haven't said much about that issue, that point, until
fairly recently. Why didn't you push that earlier on?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, we're getting down to the final days, and we want to
make sure the public understands I can win and I can help the ticket win.
Q. Mr. President, if he is such a loser, surely you wouldn't want to have him
on your ticket in November, would you?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't think that's the way you judge a person for Vice
President. There are a lot of other qualifications. He does have a lot of friends.
He won a few primaries. But I wouldn't want to prejudge that matter until
after we get a little further down the road.
Q. Mr. President, you've indicated you might be able to win in California.
Have you had any late word to lead you to believe that?
The President. Yes, some of our phonebanks show a swing toward us. I
1836
