July 2
[636]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
build her greatness on the principles which were made the political cornerstones
of our government 200 years ago—freedom and human dignity.
Throughout the years since then, the contacts between our two countries have
been numerous and the benefit has been mutual. We fought together in World
War II, and the help which the American people gave my country after victory
was achieved remains a vital element in our relationship. I personally had the
privilege as a young boy to stay in your country during the war years and went
to school here in Washington, D.C. For the last quarter of a century, we have
been allies in NATO.
As you celebrate your Bicentennial it is, therefore, only natural that we should
offer a token of our esteem. To this end, the Norwegian Government and
Parliament have decided to make a contribution of $200,000 to the establish-
ment of a health sports center in the State of Minnesota called the Vinland
National Center.
In Norway, we have gained valuable experience in developing sports and
other recreational facilities aimed at bringing increased enjoyment of life,
strengthened health, and improved possibilities for physical training and medi-
cal rehabilitation for handicapped people to further integration in our society.
Some of the encouraging results achieved at the Norwegian Health Sports
Center at Beitostoelen were demonstrated to the American public through the
arrangement in the winter of 1975 and 1976 of cross-country skiing races for
blind and other handicapped people in the State of Colorado and the State of
Minnesota, respectively.
It gives me great pleasure to present an address, Mr. President, describing our
Bicentennial gift, signed by the Prime Minister of Norway on behalf of the
Norwegian people.
THE PRESIDENT. Your Royal Highness, I say again, the American people are
deeply grateful, and this is a fine contribution for our Bicentennial. But may I
say the Norwegian people over the years have made a great contribution to not
only Minnesota but to the 50 States of our country.
It is my understanding that some 800,000 Norwegians over a period of time
came to the United States, and their contributions as American citizens have
been invaluable as we have made headway and progress in this country.
So, I thank you for not only their contribution but for this thoughtful gift,
and the American people are deeply appreciative.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:27 a.m. in the East Garden at the White House.
1951
