April 27
[373]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
period. It wasn't the bill I recommended, but I think there was a consensus
among many who come from oil-producing States that this was the best bill
we could get, as long as I promised to use every provision in that legislation to
achieve eventual decontrol.
The legislation was signed-it was not what I recommended; it wasn't what
I wanted—but since it is law, we have already initiated a number of the provi-
sions to get decontrol.
We have recommended, and I think the Congress will approve, the decontrol
of residual oil. I believe that within the next month or less the Congress will go
along with me in the decontrol of distillate fuel, and some time in the next
several months we hope to get the Congress to go along with my recommenda-
tion to decontrol gasoline.
At the same time, we have initiated the first step in the decontrol under the
40-month provision. And the first step permits us to recommend to the Congress
a 10-percent increase in the price of $7.66 per barrel.
Now that process is going to be submitted to the Congress just as quickly as
we can under the law, and we will take every other step that's permitted under
the law to get eventual decontrol.
Now there are recommendations and there are efforts to broaden our energy
program as a whole. We have got to mine more coal. Last year we mined roughly
600 million tons of coal in the United States. We have to get up to 1,200 million
tons by 1985. We are making some headway in that regard.
I expanded the research and development funds for solar energy, for geo-
thermal energy, for nuclear energy so that we can have a diversified energy pro-
gram in this country, from oil to gas to coal to nuclear power to solar energy to
geothermal, and some of these far out, exotic fuels that they are talking about.
The Congress disappointed me last year but we're going to do everything we
can to achieve an incentive for oil and gas producers to explore and to produce.
Q. That is wonderful.
RED RIVER NAVIGATION PROJECT
[3.] Q. Mr. President, this afternoon, as you approach our great city, you
saw Red River, but what you did not see on Red River was navigation. This area
has worked very, very hard for many years to have navigation on Red River. We
would like to see navigation through Shreveport and into Oklahoma; funds
have come very slow for this project. I just wonder if you have any funds avail-
able that you could help us to attain this goal and to have completion of naviga-
tion on Red River soon?
1237
