[371]
April 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
And over the years that we were associated with one another, I highly respected
his advice, his assistance, which has been invaluable to me while I was in the
Congress, as well as in the White House.
Joe, I thank you for this friendship, as well as this assistance.
And may I say to your great Governor, I likewise appreciate his friendship
and his help and assistance and he has been helpful not only as your Governor
but when we served together in the House of Representatives.
And to John Breaux, who I've known for a shorter period of time, I say to all
of you he's in the mold of the fine congressional delegation that you have
representing you from the great State of Louisiana.
As I look from way down there to way down there, I can't express adequately
or sufficiently well the gratitude and appreciation that I have for all of you
coming here, the younger people, the older people, just all of you. It is nice to
get out of Washington once in a while and see the American people like this.
Barksdale Air Force Base stands as a shining example of national security
at its very best and as a tall, tall monument to the cooperative efforts of the
citizens of this area and of the military. As the home of the Strategic Air Com-
mand's 8th Air Force, Barksdale serves as one of the cornerstones of our de-
fense system.
And I'm very proud of the people in this area who have helped to make this
base one of the very finest in the Nation. And I congratulate not only the military
but the civilians who live and work here and make this a vital part of our na-
tional security system. All of us, whether civilians or the military, have a vitally
important part to play in keeping America strong, America free, America secure,
and America at peace.
The motto of the Strategic Air Command will serve as well for all of us:
"Peace is our profession." As President, I am committed, deeply committed, to
keeping America sufficiently strong to carry out three essential objectives:
First, we must be ready and able to protect our own vital security interests,
24 hours a day, 365 days a year.
Second, we must be ready, we must be able to deter aggression.
Thirdly, we must be ready, we must be able to keep the peace and maintain
our precious freedom.
As Congressman Joe Waggonner, as former Congressman Ed Edwards, and
as John Breaux knows, my own knowledge, my own concern, and my own
record in supporting a strong national defense does not go back merely a few
days, a few weeks, or even a few months, but all the way back to January of 1949
when I first went to the Congress of the United States.
1228
