May 11
[455]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
whose girlfriend has let him down. [Laughter] So,
he decides to run away to America because Amer-
ica, as he explains: "There the horse has silver
shoes I'm told, the carriage has wheels to match;
the streets and roads are paved with gold, you may
bend and keep what you catch. Chocolates and
sweets from the bushes drop, and the trees have
candy flowers, it rains and snows with lemon pop
and hail is peppermint showers." [Laughter]
This may be rather a fanciful picture of the
United States-[laughter]-but I fully agree with
the boy when he goes on to say: "But once you've
safely reached that land, you'll never regret the
voyage."
Thousands of Danes will agree with these lines,
for especially during the latter half of the 19th cen-
tury many Danes were among the millions of people
who settled in the United States, attracted by the
opportunities of the New World and the challenge
of shaping a living for themselves in a country where
initiative and hard work were the great require-
ments and the prime virtues. That these Danes dared
and succeeded is the pride of their old country.
During the turbulent times in Europe around the
year 1800 Denmark was among the first countries to
establish diplomatic relations with the United States.
Thus, this year the United States and Denmark have
maintained unbroken diplomatic relations for 175
years. I believe that we are justified in boasting a
longer relationship with the United States than any
other country. A fruitful background for that strong
and intimate relationship which has been forged
between our two governments and our peoples dur-
ing more recent times and which is strengthened by
bonds both cultural and commercial and by our
common membership of worldwide alliances and
organizations.
I can assure you, Mr. President, that Denmark has
not forgotten and never will forget the decisive con-
tribution of the United States one generation ago in
the confrontation with the forces that were about to
destroy our democracy and our right to live in a
society based on liberty and justice. Nor shall we
forget the generosity of the United States when it
came to the tremendous task of reconstructing our
economies in Western Europe.
The formation of the North Atlantic Treaty Or-
ganization in 1949 opened up an area for very close
cooperation between Denmark and the United States
based on our mutual security interests. The arrange-
ment between our two countries with regard to
Greenland is a specific expression of our common
interest in the security field.
The alliance has given us the necessary back-
ground for attempts to establish a more secure and
confident relationship between East and West. You
have yourself, Mr. President, expressed your ideas
about this relationship in your eloquent address at
the Helsinki summit meeting last year. It is a major
achievement of the alliance to which your contribu-
tion is so vital that it has been possible to maintain
peace in Europe since the end of the Second World
War.
In this long period of peace, new ideas for Euro-
pean cooperation have come up. In 1972 Denmark,
the United Kingdom, and the Irish Republic decided
to join the Community, and Denmark, together with
our eight fellow members, is now striving to develop
this Community which vitally affects all aspects of
life in our society.
In Denmark, we are convinced that the construc-
tion of Europe is of importance not only to the
members of the European Community, and that the
traditional close relations between the United States
and Europe will continue and develop further as
part of a greater pattern involving all countries of
the world. This is but one of the ways of practical
international cooperation, and one of the ways in
which the interdependence of all countries may be
realized and greater stability and peace achieved.
In former times people went to America to settle
and only came back on brief visits if at all, so that
what we knew about the American way of life was
sketchy and often inaccurate. In more recent times,
however, more and more young people have been
to the United States to study and have brought back
new ideas and fresh knowledge which they have put
to good use and which has been instrumental in re-
building Europe since the war.
It would be difficult to imagine where Danish
science, business, and industry would be today, were
it not for the contribution of that generation of
young people who received a large part of their
training in the United States.
I hope and believe that the warm friendship be-
tween our two countries will endure and that this
Bicentennial Year will be yet another link in the
long chain of years through which the good rela-
tionship between Denmark and the United States
has existed.
The Prince joins me when I raise my glass in
honor of the President of the United States of Amer-
ica and Mrs. Ford, for the friendship between our
two countries, and for the prosperity and happiness
of the people of the United States.
1527
