[393]
April 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
So, I thank you for the chance to be here. I thank you, Mr. Mayor and Mr.
Conger. I'm deeply grateful. Good luck, and God bless every one of you.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:45 p.m. after turning
the ceremonial shovel which broke ground on the
city's Bicentennial restoration project, involving
Waco Bridge.
In his opening remarks, the President referred to
394
Mayor M. A. Smith of Waco, Senator John G.
Tower, chairman of the Texas President Ford Com-
mitter, and Roger Conger, chairman, Waco Bicen
tennial Commission.
Remarks at a President Ford Committee Reception in Waco,
Texas. April 29, 1976
FIRST, I want to thank Senator John Tower for the wonderful job that he has
done as the chairman of the President Ford Committee for the great State of
Texas. John, you have done as fine a job there as you have done as United States
Senator for the State of Texas.
And then I would like to express my deepest appreciation to these four fine
people from your congressional district who are running to support me in this
forthcoming election on May 1. I thank each and every one of you, and,
obviously, I wish you the very best.
I had a wonderful experience here in Baylor-or in Waco, just in the last
hour or two. I went over to Baylor University. They made an ex-Wolverine a
Baylor Bear. [Laughter] And you know, you didn't treat us very well up there
in Ann Arbor last fall. [Laughter]
But it was a great game, and we're going to have-the game ended in a tie,
I guess; that was about as thrilling a ballgame as we had. And so, I want to thank
all of you from Baylor and all of you from Waco for the hospitality and the
friendliness and the very warm welcome that I have received.
Now, let me take a few minutes. I have had the privilege and pleasure
to shake hands with a good many of you and wish you well and thank you
for coming here. Within the next 48 hours, probably less, some very major
decisions will be made here in the State of Texas. And those decisions, at least
as far as the Republican Party is concerned, can be major decisions as to the
future of this country.
I am honored, privileged to be here in Waco and to present myself to you
and to talk affirmatively about some of the things that we have done that I
think have been constructive in the 20 months that I have had an opportunity
to be your President.
1
1336
