[333]
April 10
Public Papers of the Presidents
We have to conserve, we have to stimulate our domestic production of oil and
gas, we have to spend money in research and development, in the exotic fuels,
solar energy, and I might quote for you, if it would be helpful: 2 years ago we
spent about $40 million in research and development for solar energy; this year
we are spending $116 million, and next year $160 million.
This is a great potential. Your Government is making a massive effort to the
extent that we can to conserve on the one hand and to increase production on
the other.
Q. Mr. President, we have time for one more question.
THE PRESIDENT. Oh, gosh, can we take a couple more? If you can stand it,
I am enjoying it. | Laughter]
PRESIDENTIAL LEADERSHIP QUALITIES
[11.] Q. Mr. President, what qualities in a leader do you deem necessary
for a person in the Presidency to possess? As we go to the polls as voters in No-
vember we need to be aware of these qualities of leadership.
THE PRESIDENT. From my 27-plus years in public life-25 years in the Congress
and 2-plus years as Vice President and President-I would summarize it this
way: I think a person in public life has to be honest with himself and frank
and candid in his relationship with people, whether he represents a congressional
district or represents the 215 million people in the United States. That is num-
ber one.
Number two, I think there has to be a basic intelligence that is related to your
education, whether it was in school or whether it was in the business world or
whether it was in your profession. You have to have not only an educational
background but an experienced background. Experience is vitally important as
one sees day after day the kind of problems that come across the President's
desk.
I can assure you that it is not an 8-hour day, and don't get me wrong, I love it.
I can't wait to get to the office every morning, and I don't go home tired and
worn out and otherwise unhappy at night. But I think you have to have some
experience because the wide spectrum of problems that come to the desk-say
yes or no, you seldom can say maybe. You have to have experience, you have to
be able to make decisions decisively, you have to have a capability of coming
forth with constructive suggestions to solve our problems.
You can't sit back and say this is wrong, it is terrible, or that is wrong, and
I can't do anything about it. You have to look at the problem through experience,
through education, through good judgment, through honesty. You have to come
1108
