April 29
[396]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
was a Democratic Congress-overwhelmingly they confirmed me by a sub-
stantial margin. So, I think as far as I am personally concerned, I have no con-
nection whatsoever with the Watergate, period.
Q. Mr. President, earlier today you said that John Connally had good reasons
to remain neutral in the primary. Could you tell us what those good reasons are?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I assume since John, who is a very good friend of
mine, has decided not to endorse me or to endorse my opponent, he had good
reasons. I think you will have to ask him for the reasons that he has not endorsed
either me or my opponent.
Q. Does the addition of Coach Landry indicate any last-minute change in his
strategy? [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I have known Coach Landry and respected him, not
only as an outstanding football player but probably one of the outstanding
coaches in the national professional league in the history of that league. So, I
feel very, very fortunate that a man of that stature, a man of that great respect
in Texas, as well as elsewhere, has endorsed me. I'm just very grateful.
Q. Mr. President, earlier today you said you could confirm the gist of the
Woodward-Bernstein book, “The Final Days." I wonder if your confirma-
tion includes such things as the characterization and description of your
Secretary of State and his relationship with the former President? It described
Mr. Kissinger as despising the former President and working with him
anyhow.
The President. Well, the investigation by the FBI of my record, the investi-
gation by the two committees in the Congress-the House and the Senate—
involved me and my record, and they found that I passed the test without any
problem. They didn't get into the relationship of other individuals to anybody
else in the administration.
Q. So, in confirming that the gist of the book was true, you are not con-
firming that.
The President. No, I was only confirming my personal experiences in those
latter days. And as far as I had any personal observations and personal connec-
tions, it was strictly a business relationship where the President told me at one
time that he was going to step aside, and it was strictly a man-to-man
conversation.
Q. So far, have you been pleased with Kissinger's outcome of his trip in
Africa?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, I think that Secretary Kissinger has gone there, at my
direction, one, to reaffirm this country's belief in the right of self-determination
1341
