[338]
April 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
I believe that in this debate, the wisdom and the philosophy of Jefferson will
prevail. We find he believed that not every difference of opinion is a difference
of principle and that he tolerated error in the confidence that truth would
triumph.
Jefferson was a fervent believer in freedom of the press. Although harshly
attacked and often vilified, he maintained an unfettered press was essential to
American freedom. We find the meaning of democracy in his immortal words,
that "though the will of the majority is in all cases to prevail, that will to be
rightful must be reasonable; that the minority possess their equal rights, which
equal laws must protect."
We find he put his trust in the people whom he believed to be basically mod-
erate, patriotic, and freedom-loving. And we find above all else his love for
freedom and independence. Today, we recognize this in two symbolic gestures.
Jefferson's belief in the freedom and independence of the human mind we
honor today by an act of Congress, which names one building of the Library
of Congress after him. And Jefferson's belief in the freedom and independence
of the American people we honor today by an act of Congress, which designates
today as Thomas Jefferson Day.
I believe as we move into our third century of independence, there will be an
even greater emphasis by our people to find ways and means to meet our needs,
while limiting the role of government in the classical Jeffersonian sense. I see
the third century of American independence as a century of individualism.
I see it as a century of personal achievement and fulfillment for all Americans.
Let us honor Thomas Jefferson this year and throughout the next century of
our independence by weaving into our national life the qualities, the talents, and
the ideals which were the warp and woof of his.
Let us practice the responsible individualism, and thereby pay tribute to the
man we commemorate here. Let us dedicate ourselves to achievement, so that
we may make this country what it has the potential to be. Let us maintain for
America its rightful place of leadership in the councils of nations of the world.
Let us extend the boundaries of human freedom here at home and beyond our
shores. Let us accept and discharge the responsibility as a people upon whom
providence has bestowed so much. Let us be enlightened as a nation with
appreciation for learning, for reason, and for justice for all our people.
In this way, my fellow Americans, we shall pay honor to the man from
Monticello.
It is now my honor to sign two pieces of legislation relating to Thomas Jeffer-
1120
