May 8
[443]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
give something categorical and definitive on. We will see that you get the
answer.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:05 p.m. at the Holiday Inn Resort Complex.
443
Remarks at a President Ford Committee Breakfast Reception in
Omaha. May 8, 1976
THANK you very much, Carl. I want to thank both Senator Carl Curtis and
Senator Roman Hruska for their great support and wonderful assistance. They,
of course, are two of the outstanding legislators in the Congress of the United
States. They are long-time, personal friends, and I can't thank Roman and Carl
sufficiently for the help and assistance that they have given me. I am proud to
be associated with both of them, and you should be proud of them as your
United States Senators. And I am also very proud and very grateful for the fact
that all of you are here supporting me, and let me assure you I will not let you
down in the next 4 years.
I want to say with emphasis that Nebraska has always been and is right now
a very crucial State, because it's a contest within the Republican Party as to
which of the two nominees should represent our party in the next 4 years, in
the next campaign. So, what we do between now and next Tuesday is critical,
is crucial. It requires a maximum effort by all of you, by me, and by our friends
throughout the great State of Nebraska.
If I might, I would like to take just a minute to reemphasize in your minds
what at least I believe are the things we can say affirmatively, the things that are
critical as we talk to our neighbors, to our friends, and to anybody else who will
listen.
You can put it in three words, really, the achievements of the last 21 months
since I have had the privilege of being President of the United States. You can
say it's prosperity, it's peace, and it's trust. Those are three pretty good words.
Let's take each of them for just a moment. We can say with emphasis that
when I became President, the economic situation in this country was deterio-
rating very rapidly. Inflation was over 12 percent. We have cut it down for the
first 3 months of this year-under 3 percent. That's a 75-percent reduction in
the rate of inflation. That's progress by any standard.
When I became President, we were on the brink of the worst economic con-
ditions this country had suffered for almost 40 years. Employment was going
1503
