[460]
May 12
Public Papers of the Presidents
was going to enter every one of the primaries-some 30, I recognized at that
time we would maybe lose a few, but I felt it was my responsibility to go to the
American people, the length and breadth of this country. I have, or I will.
Now, in January or February of this year, there were a good many people
who were saying that Jerry Ford would lose a couple of primaries and the
whole ballgame would be over some time in February or March. Well, that
didn't happen.
We knew that in the month of May there would be some disappointments-
there have been-but we decided early that we were going to enter every pri-
mary. We were going to win enough delegates to go to Kansas City and win
there, and that will be the outcome.
Q. Thank you very much.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you all very, very much.
NOTE: Th. exchange began at 11-40 am at Detroit-Wayne Counts M tropolitan Airjoitt
461
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session With Members
of the Economic Club of Detroit. May 12, 1976
Thank you very much, Governor Bill Milliken, and especially thank you for
that very kind and very generous introduction, as well as your endorsement, and
to you, Ray MacDonald and Russ Swaney, distinguished members of the Michi-
gan congressional delegation, Bob Griffin, Congressman Al Cederberg, your
own Congressman Bill Broomfield, Congressman Mart Esch, Bill Seidman
from my staff-many of you know him-and, of course, Bishop Coleman
McGehee he was not only the pastor of the Ford family in Alexandria, Vir-
ginia, for a number of years but he baptized two of our children. So, so far they
have done all right, Coleman:
If my memory is correct, this is my 10th trip home to Michigan since I became
President, and my 4th to the Detroit area. Obviously, I am deeply grateful for
your very warm welcome.
It is especially gratifying to have the opportunity to participate again in this
distinguished forum with so many of my old friends. I know from our previous
meeting of the breadth of interest and wealth of ability that is represented here
on this occasion. I know you want in-depth understanding of various points of
view of the complex issues affecting this great metropolitan area, our State,
and our country.
1534
