[384]
April 28
Public Papers of the Presidents
your individual life and your business and to give this great free enterprise
system that we inherited from our forefathers a chance to work.
I don't feel I have to recite the statistics that prove that we are on the way to
a very solid, a very constructive prosperity for the United States. And normally,
I would be shy and hesitant about taking some credit for it, but we are getting
a lot of criticism from people who say that things are still bad. And they are
not quite predicting the depression as they were a year ago; they aren't predict-
ing 10-percent unemployment, but, doggone it, we did a good job, and we are
going to continue to do a good job for the next 4 years with the same basic
philosophy, which is individual rights and a dedication to the free enterprise
system.
Now, let me take just a minute to explain something that may interest some
of you. I refer to the very difficult problem that this country faced following
the oil embargo of 1973. All of a sudden this country woke up and found that
we had a serious energy problem. And in January of 1975, shortly after I be-
came President, in my State of the Union Message to the Congress, I recom-
mended complete decontrol of the domestic oil industry and the decontrol of
new natural gas. That is a matter of record.
During the next 12 months-not 12, but 11 or 11-the Congress dawdled,
delayed, debated; a number of false starts, a number of very bad proposals, and
finally, in December of 1975, they put on my desk a bill that I didn't like. It
was marginally signable. And when I signed it I said I would use every pro-
vision of that law to as quickly as possible-free the domestic oil industry
from the control that was imposed by previous law and by that.
And what have we done? As of, I think, today, the order has been issued
to decontrol residual oil. We are in the mill of providing for decontrol of dis-
tillates and gasoline. And if we haven't sent it up to the Congress it will be
there shortly-the first step under the law that permits us to get a 10-percent
increase in the $7.66 composite price. We are going to take every step that is
permitted under the law to achieve total decontrol under the 40-month
provision.
I will add one caveat. Any legislation that the Congress sends me to expedite
that process, I will sign. If we can get some more flexibility, some more modera-
tion in that law, believe me, I will applaud it. I will work with the same people
that I worked with in getting our economy out of the recession or depression,
and I think we are on the right path. It is slower, and it is not the way I wanted
it, but at least you can count on me for the next 4 years, and we can celebrate to-
gether when that 40 months is up and we are through with controls, period.
1286
