[360]
April 23
Public Papers of the Presidents
And I might also say, talking about vetoes, since I have been President I have
vetoed 48 measures. That is an alltime record. Thirty-nine of those vetoes have
been sustained even by this Congress. [Laughter] The net result is we have
saved $13 billion in Federal expenditures, and that is not a bad record. But let
me add a postscript. If they send down any more of this terrible legislation, we
will veto it and veto it and veto it again.
Now, let's talk for a minute about how we stand in our efforts to make sure
that we maintain the peace. You know, I am very proud that I am the first
incumbent President who is seeking election who can stand before the American
people and say that our country is at peace-the first one in 20 years. So, we
must be doing something right in our relations with our allies and with our
adversaries.
All I am saying is the United States of America is number one. We have
unsurpassed military capability, we are the greatest industrial nation in the
history of the world, our agriculture outproduces anybody, we are ahead sci-
entifically and technologically, and, most importantly, this country has a deep
moral and spiritual and religious belief that gives us the inspiration to challenge
anybody and to keep ahead of everybody, and that is where America is.
And now let me thank Matt, John, and all of you. We have got great leader-
ship here in Georgia and we have got great people like you to help in the job.
I think we have good programs, both domestically and internationally, and if
we are able to do, as I think we have done in the last 20 months, in the next 4
years, we can say at the end of the next 4 years even stronger and even better
than we say it today-every one of us is proud to be an American and proud
of America.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 5:38 p.m. in the Olym-
pium II and III Rooms at the Radisson Inn. In his
opening remarks, he referred to John Savage, former
Georgia Congressman, and Matthew Patton, chair-
man of the Georgia President Ford Committee
361
Remarks at the Freedom Foundation Dinner
in Atlanta.
April 23, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Colonel Collins, Mrs. Fain, distinguished guests,
ladies and gentlemen:
It's a surprise for you, but it is a pleasure for me to honor all of the honorees
1190
