April 28
[383]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
think, 1969 or 1970 for a suspension of the Davis-Bacon Act. It was suspended
for a relatively short period of time. It was reimposed, I think, within 30 or 60
days, if my memory serves me correctly.
We will have the benefit of that recommendation or those studies by GAO,
and when those studies come to me, I will make a decision, but until they do, I
think it is premature.
Q. Mr. President, I wanted to tell you I am pleased to be here in your pres-
ence today, along with all these industry leaders in this area associated with
the construction business. On the light side, I always read with pleasure when
the media reports you have enjoyed a wonderful golf game. I'm a golfer.
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I hope they don't depend on that as to my score be-
cause—[laughter]—
Q. I also am a golfer, and, as you know, when golfing friends meet occa-
sionally, why the first thing they say is, "Hello, how's your backswing?" Now,
I don't intend you to answer that question, but I would like to extend an in-
vitation to you to play sometime when your campaign activities are not so heavy
on some of the many beautiful courses we have here in the Houston-Harris
County area.
THE PRESIDENT. We get over November 2 and I would be delighted to come
back and accept your invitation. [Laughter]
LUMBER INDUSTRY
[2.] Q. Mr. President, I'm a builder and a lumber dealer. I am concerned
about timber and lumber and the availability at reasonable prices. The Monon-
gahela decision in 1975 by the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals upheld a 1973
lower court decision that defined an 1897 Organic Act for National Forests.
This resulted in limiting the cut to dead, diseased, or physiologically matured
trees individually marked. Based on reliable information, this has virtually
stopped all logging operations in the Fourth Circuit Court area. The United
States District Court for Alaska agreed with the Monongahela decision. This
court encompasses Alaska, Washington, Oregon, Idaho, and Montana and has
ordered a halt to the sale of a 50-year, 8.2 billion boardfoot contract with 26
years to run.
National forests provide about one-fourth of the supply and contain about
one-half of the available United States softwood, soft timber. Closing of national
forest production could curtail availability of lumber and plywood essential in
homebuilding 75 percent, from 12 billion boardfeet to 3 billion boardfeet.
As we understand the problem, the 1897 Organic Act for National Forests
1277
