[373]
April 27
Public Papers of the Presidents
we had four children, all of those children went to the public schools in Alexan-
dria, Virginia, and graduated from there.
Every year in October, Betty and I would get a slip, "Does your father work
for the Federal Government?" Yes, I, as a Congressman, worked for the Fed-
eral Government. Our children were counted for impacted aid for Alexandria,
Virginia, and all Congressmen's children are, whether they live in Montgomery
County, Maryland, or Prince Georges County in Maryland, or Arlington County
in Virginia.
Now, there is no justification for my children or any Congressman's children
being counted for impacted aid to help the local school district. It just cannot be
justified. What it means is that my taxpayers, when I represented Grand Rapids,
Michigan, were subsidizing my public school taxes for the city of Alexandria,
Virginia, and that ain't right. [Laughter]
Thank you all very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 4:33 p.m. in the
Hangar Auditorium at Barksdale Air Force Base. In
his opening remarks, he referred to Representative
Joe D. Waggonner, Jr., Governor Edwin W. Edwards
of Louisiana. Mayors I Calhoun Allen, Jr. of
Shreveport and James I. Cathy of Bossier City; and
Lt. Gen Richard M. Hoban, commander of the 8th
Air Force Division.
374
Remarks To Members of the Ambassador's Club in Bossier
City, Louisiana. April 27, 1976
Dalton and Sugar and Joe Waggonner and all you wonderful people from
Shreveport and the other areas that are around:
It's really been a wonderful day for me to come down to Barksdale and to
participate in the several interesting, challenging and, I hope, productive inci-
dents, meetings that we had and this is a sort of frosting on the cake. I really en-
joyed meeting all your children this afternoon. You know we have to build for
the future.
So, it was nice meeting them, it was a pleasure having an opportunity, and I
hope to meet all of you. This is the last place that I think anybody ought to get
serious, and I've been much too much of that today. I just want Dalton and
Sugar and Joe and everybody else in the Shreveport area to know that it's been
a great day. All of you have been very hospitable and warm in your welcome,
and I just wish I could stay here 4 more days.
But I have got a few schedules over west of here someplace. [Laughter] And
we are going over there and give it our best, but this has been an awfully nice
1244
