571」
June 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
tration is seeking so that you can spend your money, and the Federal Government
won't decide it for you.
Now, what kind of a problem do we have as far as the Congress is concerned?
I recommended a 50-percent cut in the rate of growth of Federal spending.
The Congress so far-the Democratic majority taking the leadership-instead
of holding the line, has set a ceiling $17 billion more than I recommended, and
that means they are going to be sending some additional budget-busting bills
down to the Congress.
Let's talk about what we have done about that legislation that has come
from Capitol Hill down to the Oval Office in the White House. In 22 months,
I vetoed 49 bills, 42 of them have been sustained by the responsible Members
of the House of Representatives or the United States Senate. In the process of
vetoing and getting 42 of them sustained, we have saved the taxpayers $13
billion. That is a good record, and we're proud of it.
Let me say not to the people here who represent you from the Congress,
but the irresponsible Members of the House and the Senate, if they send us
any more deficit-increasing, budget-busting bills, I will veto them again and
again and again and again.
Let's turn for just a minute to where we stand in foreign policy. Our allies
believe in us. Our adversaries understand that we are strong and we are
going to negotiate with strength. We have achieved the peace. We have the
military capability to maintain the peace and the diplomatic skill to avoid a
confrontation.
I remind you—which I think is critical and crucial in deciding whether we
have been successful or not—not a single American boy is fighting and dying
on foreign soil under this administration.
I might add, parenthetically, the Ford administration is not going to send
any troops to southern Africa or to Rhodesia, and I should add, in addition
to that, we've been able to keep our military manpower for the Army, the
Navy, the Air Force, and Marines at full strength without resorting to the
draft. For the first time in 40 years, we can meet our military commitments, and
the young men of this country can volunteer and can serve as a career rather than
to be sent by Selective Service.
What we're doing in foreign policy is negotiating rather than confronting
Our allies believe in the will and the resolution of the American people. They
know that our strength is fully capable to carry out any mission they have in
our defense to deter aggression, to maintain the peace. Our adversaries know
1828
