June 7
[573]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Republican Party in 1976. We can win. I can be elected, and I can help elect
more Republican Members of the House and the Senate, in this State legisla-
ture, and in the local courthouse.
That is the way you build a party. That is the way you maintain a political
philosophy. That is the way you make headway in trying to keep America
on the right path economically, militarily, diplomatically, morally, spiritually,
and everything else.
All I am saying to you is we have got about 24 hours now, just about 24
hours to make the difference. And what you do here in Hamilton County—
we are in the last minute of the last quarter, and this is when you really turn
on the steam. This is when you convince people, and you get people to the
polls. We did a pretty good job in Michigan a few weeks ago, and as I said
in the other meeting, this is one time I would love to see Ohio beat Michigan's
record.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:03 a.m. in Reception Room 213 at the Cincinnati Convention Center.
573
Remarks at a Republican Party and President Ford Committee
Reception in Cincinnati. June 7, 1976
I WANT to thank very, very deeply Governor Jim Rhodes for his all-out
efforts. I want to thank the Republican organization from the top down to the
person that gets people to the polls and tell them how to vote for the good
of the country, and I want to thank all of the Republican Members of the
United States Congress, Bob Taft and my former colleagues in the House. I
want to thank the State legislators. They have done a super job on my behalf.
I never thought I could get this many Buckeyes to help a Wolverine. [Laughter]
Of course, the epitome was when Woody Hayes' came out for a Wolverine.
But let me give you a message in capsule form that I gave a comparable
group in New Jersey yesterday. Here is a group of people in the great State
of New Jersey who remember very vividly the clobbering they took in 1964,
where they lost virtually the whole ticket from top to bottom. They lost what
they call freeholders, which are the courthouse people. They lost the State
ticket; it was just decimated. And they are not going to let that happen by
having the wrong person leading the Republican ticket in November.
1 Head coach of the Ohio State University football team.
1831
