July 2
[639]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
man or woman by any human agency, monarchy, or democracy; that all gov-
ernments derive their just powers from the people, who consent to be gov-
erned in order to secure their rights and to effect their safety and their happiness.
Thus, both rights and powers belong to the people—the rights equally appor-
tioned to every individual, the powers to the people as a whole.
This November the American people will, under the Constitution, again give
their consent to be governed. This free and secret act should be a reaffirmation, by
every eligible American, of the mutual pledges made 200 years ago by John
Hancock and the others whose untrembling signatures we can still make out.
Jefferson said that the future [Earth] belongs to the living. We stand awed
in the presence of these great charters—not by their beauty, not by their antiquity,
but because they belong to us. We return thanks that they have guided us safely
through two centuries of national independence, but the excitement of this
occasion is that they still work.
All around our Nation's Capital are priceless collections of America's great
contributions to the world, but many of them are machines no longer used,
inventions no longer needed, clothes no longer worn, books no longer read,
songs no longer sung.
Not so the Constitution, which works for us daily, changing slowly to meet
new needs; not so the Bill of Rights, which protects us day and night in the
exercise of our fundamental freedoms-to pray, to publish, to speak as we
please.
Above all stands the magnificent Declaration, still the fixed star of freedom
for the United States of America.
Let each of us, in this year of our Bicentennial, join with those brave and
farsighted Americans of 1776. Let us, here and now, mutually pledge to the
ennobling and enduring principles of the Declaration our lives, our fortunes,
and our sacred honor. Let us do so, as they did, with firm reliance on the protec-
tion of divine providence, that the future of this land that we love may be ever
brighter for our children and for generations of Americans yet to be born.
NOTE: The President spoke at 9:14 p.m. in the
Exhibition Hall.
Participating in the ceremony were Vice President
Nelson A. Rockefeller, Chief Justice Warren E.
Burger, Speaker of the House Carl Albert, and John
W. Warner, Administrator of the American Revolu-
tion Bicentennial Administration. Their remarks are
printed in the Weekly Compilation of Presidential
Documents (vol. 12, p. 1002).
1957
