[545]
June 1
Public Papers of the Presidents
These disaster relief funds will give us the welcome chance to build on the
assistance we have already been able to give. Almost from the moment the earth-
quake struck, United States Ambassador John Volpe and the United States mili-
tary forces stationed in Italy were on the scene, making our initial assistance
contribution.
On May 13 the Vice President and Daniel Parker, my special coordinator for
international disaster assistance, went to Italy, at my request, to receive a first-
hand report on the impact of the earthquakes and on the ways in which the
United States could be of assistance. I received their report on May 17, and based
on this information our specialists are now working with the Italian authorities
to implement the most effective possible recovery program.
The ties between the American and the Italian people are very broad and very
deep. Our hearts and hands go out to thousands who have been stricken and
who have lost their loved ones in this tragic disaster.
I know that all here join me in the profound hope that the funds and assist-
ance programs made possible by this legislation will enable the people of Italy
to rebuild their homes and their towns and to place this great tragedy behind
them.
We, the United States, 215 million of us, want to do everything possible
to assist our good friend and ally at this time of great need.
MINISTER SERAFINI. I am deeply moved, Mr. President. On behalf of the
Italian Government, on behalf of the people of Italy, on behalf of those people
who were stricken by this calamity, I wish to convey to the people of the United
States, to those Congressmen and Senators who took the initiative to raise all
these funds, to you personally, Mr. President, our feelings of deepest apprecia-
tion and gratitude for this token of friendship and human solidarity.
I am sure that this money that has been collected here in the framework
of our friendly relations will be instrumental in helping those people who just
want to build up their homes and go back to work.
Thank you very much, Mr. President.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:40 p.m. in the
Rose Garden at the White House. In his opening
remarks, he referred to Marcello Serafini, Minister
of the Commercial Office of the Italian Embassy
As enacted, the buil (HR 13172, 11 Public Law
94-303 (90 Stat. 597).
1770
