[479]
May 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
tive of your willingness to be a volunteer out in the frontline because, as I said
a moment ago, that is where the battle is won.
If I could give you a few words or a few ideas that you might use as you talk
to your neighbors, to your business associates, to your friends, I can summarize
it very quickly.
Why should Jerry Ford be the next President for the 4 years ahead of us?
I think it is very simple. One, I have got a record. It is not predicated on prom-
ises with no experience; it is predicated on the basis of struggling with the
Congress, on the one hand-not with Howard and Jimmy, but with those other
fellows. [Laughter] It is experience in working with the Congress to get them
to do something or to prevent the Congress from doing something. And I
can tell you it is very helpful to be able to call people to help affirmatively, like
Jim or Howard, or to ask them to stand with me when those goings are tough
with the vetoes that we have.
Continuity in the office is important. Some of the things that we have to
meet on a day-to-day basis relate to what happened in the past, and to have a
little background is sometimes extremely helpful, both as to time and as to
content. So, whether it is experience or continuity, those are important assets.
Number three, let me talk just a minute about the record. We try to summarize
our achievements in three words-peace, prosperity, and trust. I think we have
done a good job. We achieved the peace during the 21 months that I have
been President. We have got it today, and we have the programs, both military
and diplomatic, to keep it in the future. Let me point out, as Howard did on
several occasions today, I am the first President in 13 years who can go to the
American people and say our country is at peace.
There is one other point. The young people who are on college campuses,
it is the first time in over 40 years that a young man graduating from college
and/or high school isn't faced with mandatorily going into Selective Service.
We achieve our manpower requirements in the Army, Navy, Air Force, and
Marines by volunteers. And so we have a good military organization, but we
also have the option for young people if they want to do otherwise.
Now, let's talk for just a minute about prosperity. You don't know how
tough it was-I suspect some of you do. A year ago we had nearly 9 percent
unemployment. A lot of people were saying, Mr. President, you have got to
spend a lot more money; you have got to initiate a whole lot of new, costly
programs with all kinds of new Federal bureaucracy; you have got to do a
multitude of other things in a panic.
We didn't do it. We held the line. We vetoed 49 bills, 42 of them were
1582
