May 25
[525]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
is less government control, less wasteful government spending, and lower taxes
for middle-income Americans.
I want to cut your Federal income taxes by some $10 billion, beginning July 1
of this year, just a few weeks away. I want to increase the personal exemption
from $750 per person to $1,000 per person. I want to enact an accelerated
depreciation allowance and another investment tax credit to retain the $50,000
corporate surtax exemption.
Let me change the subject, if I might. I have vetoed 49 bills sent to me by the
Congress over the last 21 months. Responsible Members of the Congress sus-
tained 42 of those vetoes and, incidentally, those vetoes have saved the American
taxpayers $13 billion. If the Congress keeps on sending me big spending, budget-
busting expenditure bills, I will use my veto again and again and again. And that
is in the best interest of this country.
If the Congress would act responsibly—and that is pretty hard for a majority
of them, not Al or Pete, of course—if they would enact my tax cut proposals
instead of thinking up new ways to spend your money, we could create in this
country a tremendous demand for goods and services that would mean many,
many more American jobs and lasting prosperity. That would be the inevitable
result.
One of the most encouraging economic statistics is the index of consumer con-
fidence. That's all of us, 215 million of us in this great country. Well, it's going
up double what it was a year ago. In economic terms, that means, of course, the
American people are spending more money, moving more goods, and even
willing to borrow again for major purposes for the future. It means the Ameri-
can people are looking to the future with faith instead of fear. I have restored
that faith by making my administration an open, candid, and forthright one,
and I will promise no more than I can deliver and I will deliver everything that
I promise.
As we came from the airport to this wonderful facility, I had an opportunity
to talk with Mayor Hayes. She discussed with me the absolute need and neces-
sity for Congress moving on the extension of general revenue sharing. Now, that
term or title doesn't necessarily mean a great deal to all of you, but let me be
quite specific. Back in 1972 it was decided that we ought to give to the 39,000
local units of government, including San Jose and the 50 States, about $5 to $6
billion a year so that the local people would make the decisions as to how that
money would be spent instead of having some far-off bureaucrat in Washington
telling you what you in San Jose ought to have or shouldn't have.
1717
