April 29
[397]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
I believe firmly in peace through strength. We will stand tall and strong and
keep our powder dry so the United States can negotiate from a position that
commands respect and invites cooperation from our adversaries.
I have taken firm, firm steps to ensure that our alliances are strong, our com-
mitments are worthwhile, and our defenses are without equal. I have proposed
the two largest defense budgets in the history of the United States, reversing a
trend that was reducing our defense expenditures year by year to levels that were
dangerously low.
The price of our national defense may be high-but let me speak very person-
ally to each and everyone of you—the price of freedom is one Americans have
always been willing to pay in blood, in sacrifice, and in treasure. We are no less
willing to pay that price in America today to keep our Nation secure.
But America's security rests more than on armaments alone. Our ultimate
strength is the spirit, the love of freedom, the pursuit of justice, the commitment
to progress which Americans have shared for 200 years.
We live in a nation that is the envy of the world and, frankly, I am darned
sick and tired of hearing from some people that America is on the downgrade.
It isn't true. I believe in America, as you do. I believe in its strength, as you do.
I believe in its purpose, as you do. I believe in its goodness, as you do. And most
of all, we believe in what we stand for. We can be proud, we can be proud that
we are Americans, and we are proud of America.
Working together, you and I, we can look to an even brighter future for our
children and their children. We can see an America in which all men and
women live in dignity, in security, in harmony, and in peace. We can see people
taking pride in their work and finding pleasure and purpose in their lives.
We can see an America in which government is the capable servant, not the
master of its people. We can see an America which cherishes those wonderful
old values of honesty, compassion, determination, and courage. We can see an
America in which those great dreams that we have all had will come true.
That's my goal. And that is why I am asking for your support in the chal-
lenging years ahead, so that I may have an opportunity to serve each and every
one of you with strength, with support, with dignity, and success.
I thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:10 p.m. at the North-
park Mall. In his opening remarks, he referred to
Mr. and Mrs. Raymond D. Nasher, owners of the
mall.
1345
