[392]
April 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
and we will stay at peace because we are strong enough to keep the peace, to
deter aggression, and to protect our national security.
Since I became President, I have recommended to the Congress the two largest
military budgets in the history of the United States, the last one a 14-percent
increase over the previous year. They were needed to make certain that our mili-
tary capabilities continue to be strong in the years ahead, as they must be if w
are to find the peace and the security that we all seek. I am determined, as I
have always been, to keep America's military might unsurpassed by any other
nation.
If I might extemporize for just a minute, it was a great privilege for me to serve
in the Congress for some 25-plus years and probably the most challenging,
the most interesting experience that I had in that 25 years was the opportunity
to serve on the Committee on Appropriations where I served for 16 years. And
14 out of those 16 years I was privileged to serve on what we call the Subcom-
mittee on the Department of Defense, and also the Subcommittee on Foreign
Aid Appropriations. On the Department of Defense appropriation bill we used
to start hearings-and I started them first back in 1953 and went through 1965
or '66—we used to start in January every year, and we would go 5 days a week, 5
hours a day, 5 months a year listening to Secretaries of Defense, Chairmen of
the Joint Chiefs of Staff, all the Secretaries of Army, the Navy, and the Air
Force, all of the top generals and admirals.
I think that subcommittee, composed of six Democrats and five Republicans
probably knew more about the history and the facts and the figures and the
policies and the programs and the personnel of the Department of Defense of
any committee in the Congress of the United States-and we did this every year.
So, when I say to all of you wonderful young men and women that the military
capabilities of the United States today are unsurpassed by any country in the
world, I think I am qualified to say that with complete and total assurance.
You know sometimes when I hear critics complaining about American
defense policy and American foreign policy, always complaining but never
offering any program of their own, I am reminded of one of the finest Texans
I ever had the privilege to know and serve with in the Congress of the United
States. Sam Rayburn, who served as Speaker of the House longer than any person
in the history of the House of Representatives-he served 50 years in the Con-
gress with over 3,000 Congressmen and Senators and 8 different Presidents,
Democrats as well as Republicans—at the end of a very long day, after he had
worked very hard to make a better life for America, when he heard from the
1326
