July 3
[642]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
642
Remarks at the Honor America Program. July 3, 1976
THANK YOU very much, Bill Marriott. May I express my appreciation and
the gratitude of the American people for the wonderful job that you and your
associates with the Honor America Committee have done for the last few years.
We are most appreciative of a wonderful job and such a tremendous effort, and
let me say on behalf of all of us, thank you very much.
There are times for solemn ceremonies, and their will be many reverent
thanksgivings all over America this week and next. But we Americans are un-
comfortable with too much solemnity. We like to make a joyful noise unto
the Lord, to sing our country's praise with grateful hearts.
Laughter and liberty go well together. Ragtime and jazz, marches as well
as hymns and spirituals set the beat of the American adventure. We have ex-
ported America's happiness to the world with our gramophones, our movies,
and our own talented performers. Americans sang on riverboats, danced around
the wagon trains, joked as they marched into battle. We took all of the arts of
those who came to join the American adventure and made new arts of our own.
No nation has a richer heritage than we do, for America has it all. The United
States is probably the only country on Earth that puts the pursuit of happiness
right after life and liberty among the God-given rights of every human being.
When Jefferson wrote that, he pulled off an historic switch. For a long time,
English law had used the phrase “life, liberty, and property” to describe the
most precious things that couldn't be taken away from anybody without due
legal process.
But Jefferson dropped property in the Declaration of Independence and sub-
stituted the pursuit of happiness. Like any good politician, Jefferson knew
how to say exactly what he meant when he wanted to. So, life and liberty are
plain enough to everybody, but Jefferson never did say what he meant by the
pursuit of happiness.
If we have liberty, how each of us pursues happiness is up to us. However you
define it, the United States of America has been a happy nation over the past
200 years. Nobody is happy all the time, but most of the people have been happy
most of the time. Even in our darkest hours, we have managed a little fun.
I knew what happiness was when I was a boy. It was the Fourth of July. For
weeks we would save up our pennies, nickels, and dimes, and then at the last
moment Dad would come through with a couple of bucks for skyrockets. Then,
1961
