June 30
[627]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
programs which have an impact upon cities and their neighborhoods. They are
to seek the perspectives of local officials and neighborhood groups on Federal
programs which affect them and to develop recommendations for improve-
ments in Federal policies and programs.
In setting up this committee, my premise is that many Federal programs now
on the books are worthwhile and should be continued, especially those which
encourage local initiative and local leadership. It is particularly urgent that the
Congress act soon to reenact the General Revenue Sharing Program.
At the same time it is clear that the Federal Government must find better ways
to coordinate its many programs, that some programs should be consolidated,
and that still other programs should be phased out altogether. The commitment
to serving our cities and urban neighborhoods need not require massive new
funding programs; a great deal of Federal money is currently being spent. What
is clearly required is that we make better use of resources that are already
available.
In my discussions with ethnic leaders, I have also been impressed that the Fed-
eral Government can do more to encourage a greater sense of community, a
sense of belonging within our urban centers. In this Bicentennial Year it is es-
pecially important that we seek to enhance the value of family, of community,
and of cultural diversity that have been the strength and richness of America
for many years.
The Presidential Committee I have appointed will perform a great service for
the country by helping to revitalize urban and neighborhood life in America.
627
Memorandum Establishing the President's Committee on
Urban Development and Neighborhood Revitalization.
June 30, 1976
Memorandum for the Secretary of the Treasury, the Attorney General, the
Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary of Commerce, the Secretary of Labor,
the Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare, the Secretary of Housing
and Urban Development, the Secretary of Transportation, the Director,
Office of Management and Budget, the Administrator, Small Business
Administration, the Director, Community Services Administration, the
Executive Director, Domestic Council, the Assistant to the President for
1933
