[484]
May 14
Public Papers of the Presidents
unmatched by anybody in the Congress. What I learned at that time confirmed
the lesson of my wartime experiences in the Navy-the lesson that peace de-
mands preparedness and that weakness invites war.
And in my 2 years as your President, I assure you that I have fully utilized
all of this background and experience in putting together, as your Commander
in Chief, programs for national defense which produce two of the largest peace-
time defense budgets in the history of the United States.
This year, with that budget that I submitted of $112 point some billion and
$101 billion in spending, we must not let the Congress do as they have done in
the last 10 years-slash the Defense Department budget for fiscal year 1977. And
I call on your help to prevent this from happening in 1976.
Several weeks ago, just to make the point with many of my former colleagues
in the Congress, I bluntly warned the House as well as the Senate if the defense
budget is weakened, it will be vetoed. And I will go to the American people to
make sure that the blame is put where it belongs—in the House as well as in
the Senate.
Now, with a budget of this capability, we all recognize that the United States,
if we get the budget from the Congress, we will have a national defense pro-
gram that will meet all of the missions, all of the challenges, all of the problems
that we would expect, anticipate, or put on our doorstep in the future.
We must stay prepared. We must keep our forces strong to keep the peace.
What does that mean? That means having the best soldiers, the best sailors, the
best airmen, the best marines, and giving them the finest training and the most
effective equipment and the most outstanding leadership that we have in this
great country. That means setting a firm course for the Federal Government
not just in the defense budget, but in all the areas where we can help to keep
America the greatest nation in the history of mankind.
President Eisenhower, when he was General of the Army, once remarked
that our fighting forces are just the cutting edge of a great machine. The in-
spiration and power for that machine, he said, are found in the hearts of our
many citizens. And the spiritual powers of a nation-its religious faith, its self-
reliance, its capacity for intelligent sacrifice-Ike called these the most impor-
tant stones in any defense structure.
Our defenses are strong not just because their fighting or cutting edge is
sharp, but because America's spirit is unbeatable. America is prosperous, peace-
ful, and proud on its 200th birthday. All of us must do our part to see that
America remains strong in every respect.
We will do our part. America will stand ready to meet the challenges and
1596
