[398]
April 30
Public Papers of the Presidents
payment back, and they have to pay everything back by June 30. They paid us
back $270 million, and they paid us back $5 million in interest. So, it's a good
deal for the Federal Government. They bailed themselves out. We're loaning
them temporary money, and they're paying us interest on it, and Uncle Sam
made $5 million. That's not a bad deal for us.
LABOR UNIONS
[7.] Q. Mr. President, my question is simply this: You have a reputation for
being an equitable person, and I would like to ask you if you agree that, from
an equity point of view, labor unions should be subject to the same antitrust
laws as business-no more, no less?
THE PRESIDENT. The proposition has been raised that the antitrust law should
be applicable to labor organizations. There is a great deal of controversy on it.
There are many people in the business community who don't believe that is the
right way to approach the situation.
I personally feel that this whole matter ought to be reviewed in the light of
the expansion of a number of our labor organizations and the powers that they
now seem to have in the economic field.
And I would hope that such a study and an analysis on an updated basis would
be undertaken both by the executive branch and the Congress. We can't just
have the views of the past as we meet the problems of the future. But it's not
unanimous in the business community that that should be done.
So, we ought to get the best minds in both management, as well as labor,
and take a look at it from the point of view of the executive as well as the Con-
gress. As long as I feel that way, I don't think I should prejudge the decision-
making. But I would like to remind the people here that I have strongly
supported the Taft-Hartley Act. I have strongly supported those who would
fight repeal. I strongly support the improvements that were made in 1958 of
the Landrum-Griffin bill.
So, my views are not any great sympathy for some of the things that I see done
by major unions. But I think we ought to take into consideration the diversity of
views even in the business community, and we will by such an undertaking.
ANTITRUST LEGISLATION
[8.] Q. Mr. President, I'm Hazel Hoffman: I'm an attorney here in Dallas.
I understand that recently you wrote to Minority Leader John Rhodes object-
ing to the so-called parens patriae concept in antitrust legislation, which would
allow State attorneys general to bring large, treble damage lawsuits on behalf
1354
