June 23
[612]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
612
Message to the Senate Transmitting Fifth International Tin
Agreement. June 23, 1976
To the Senate of the United States:
I am transmitting herewith, for the advice and consent of the Senate to rati-
fication, the Fifth International Tin Agreement, which was signed by the United
States on March 11, 1976. The Fifth International Tin Agreement replaces the
Fourth International Tin Agreement, which expires on June 30, 1976. The Fifth
International Tin Agreement is scheduled to come into force July 1, 1976, for
a period of five years.
Tin is a critical commodity for the United States. We have no mineable reserves
and must import 80% of our requirements of tin, meeting the remainder by
recycling tin-bearing scrap. In addition, our strategic stockpile contains an
approximately four year supply of tin at current rates of consumption. We are
the world's largest single consumer of tin, other large consumers being Japan,
the European Community, Australia, and Canada. Primary tin is produced
chiefly by six developing countries in Asia, Africa, and Latin America. Malaysia
is the world's largest producer, accounting for about 40% of world supplies.
Tin is an important source of foreign exchange for all these countries and vital
to the success of their development plans.
Like its predecessors, the Fifth International Tin Agreement has as its main
purpose stabilizing tin prices within agreed limits. Previous agreements have
had some success in achieving this objective, especially with regard to the floor
price. These agreements have proved a notable example of cooperation between
producers and consumers in seeking solutions to common problems. The chief
features of the Fifth International Tin Agreement are the following:
—An International Tin Council which meets on a regular basis to consider
important issues and make decisions. Votes are divided equally between
producer and consumer members as groups. Within the two groups votes
are apportioned among members on the basis of their share of world produc-
tion or consumption. Thus, the larger producers and consumers carry more
weight in the Council's proceedings, but neither producers nor consumers
as a group can dominate the Council. Normally, decisions require a simple
majority vote of both producers and consumers, but certain important
decisions require a two-thirds majority vote of both. As a member of the
1905
