May 23
[511]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
your own problems with your own money, and boy, you can be proud of that.
What you have accomplished here is what I have been trying to do with the
Federal Government. You have been a little more successful than I have.
[Laughter] But what we have been trying to do is keep the government from
interfering with the free enterprise system and allowing people to do what they
want to do with their own lives.
A little more than a year ago our economy was in the worst recession in 40
years. Unemployment was climbing, inflation was running at a rate of better
than 12 percent per year. The prophets of doom and gloom were arguing that
the only way to solve the problem was massive Federal spending programs. They
said that would save us. I didn't agree, and I don't agree today.
I opposed more and more, bigger and bigger Federal spending programs. I
am sure they would have created more deficits, and I am certain they would
have added to our inflationary pressures. And we didn't want that under any
circumstances.
Because we kept the lid on spending, because we had great faith in the free
enterprise system, we have reduced the annual rate of inflation in the last 22
months by over 50 percent. We have increased national employment by 3,300,-
000 jobs in the last 12 months. We have broken the back of the recession. We
are on the road to rising prosperity, renewed trust, and lasting peace.
Our government should spend less and tax less at the Federal level, and that's
what I'm trying to do for us. Last year we reduced Federal income taxes, and I
have proposed an additional tax cut of $10 billion to take effect on July 1. This
proposal would increase the personal exemption from $750 per person to $1,000
per person. That would achieve some equity in the Federal tax system.
But in order to do that, let's be honest and frank. We have to keep a tight con-
trol on governmental spending, a balanced budget. If we do that, we can have
more tax reductions by 1979. And I want to make sure in the process that we
make your tax dollars work as hard for you as you did for them.
There is no reason that the Federal Government should continue to grow. The
larger it gets, the more distance between it and between the citizen that it is sup-
posed to serve.
Most of us work hard for our living. Most of you have worked from early
youth, and your children are beginning to participate in the work ethic. And
the financial decisions affecting you and your family should be made right here,
not by some distant Federal Government.
I'm working to restore the local government for local people. You have a bet-
1669
