May 7
[442]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
to fund. We have to increase our funding. I did increase the funding because
in the long run, research in America has paid off and helped to make us where
we are today. And in the world we face for the future, we have to do more
and more of it in order to keep ahead. And I am a strong advocate of re-
search, and in the case of agriculture, I think the record proves it.
Q. Mr. President, I am a farm wife. First, on behalf of the wives of Ameri-
ca, I want to thank you for your proposal of tax free transfer of property be-
tween spouses. Just as a marriage cannot survive without the efforts of both
spouses, in middle-income families a taxable estate cannot be acquired unless
both spouses work together.
According to the Farm Real Estate Developments Economics Research Service
of the USDA, in Nebraska, our farmland increased in value 1,023.8 percent
and across 48 States, 1,126.3 percent between 1942 when the $60,000 exemp-
tion was passed and now. In view of these statistics, would you consider raising
the specific exemption more than the $150,000 over the next 5 years? And also,
will you try to push Congress in enacting a change in the near future, and
when do you feel that we can expect a change?
The President. Well, I submitted the proposal that I mentioned, going from
$60,000 to $150,000, extending the payment of the taxes-the first 5 years, no
tax payment, and then for the next 20 years, phasing whatever is due above the
exemption over a 20-year period. And I did, as you indicated, propose the
transfer from one spouse to another without any tax burden being levied.
Now, I recommended that proposal in January. The House Committee on
Ways and Means, which is where that kind of legislation must originate, has
not-I think they have held some hearings, but they haven't taken any action.
Your good Senator, Carl Curtis, is on the Senate Committee on Finance. It
might be or it could be attached to what we call a tax reform bill but-I am not
downgrading Carl Curtis' influence there; in fact, he is one of the finest mem-
bers on that committee-but I have some reservations that that legislation is
going to go any place. Isn't that right, Carl?
Now, what we ought to do this is my own feeling—is to get the House Com-
mittee on Ways and Means to take this legislation involving the estate tax and to
try and send it through the House and the Senate in what we call a clean bill,
without "Christmas treeing" it—as Carl well knows-where they add a lot of
extraneous sort of private tax legislation.
So, if we can get the House Committee on Ways and Means to move, I don't
think you would have any real problem in the Senate. I know Carl-he is for
1501
