May 7
[440]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
posals that I am making and submitting to the Congress will permit the full
realization of these goals.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:40 p.m. in the Rose Garden at the White House.
439
Remarks on Arrival at Omaha, Nebraska. May 7, 1976
IT'S great to be back in my native State. And it's wonderful to have an oppor-
tunity to give a message to my many friends and supporters here in Nebraska
and to say to them that the fight to achieve the Presidency for the next 4 years
begins anew right here in Nebraska, and it's a fight that's going to be con-
tinued until we prevail and are successful in Kansas City in August of this year.
It's a fight that will ensure the continuation of policies that have brought
us from the depths of a recession to a new level of prosperity in America. It's
a fight that's going to continue the policies of rolling back the bureaucracy, the
redtape in Washington, D.C. It's a policy that will preserve and continue the
peace that we have and the peace that we must keep for the future. It's a policy
that will lead to the continuation of faith and trust and confidence in the Presi-
dency itself.
As I said, this is a campaign that is beginning anew. It's a campaign that's
essential for the continuation of the policies of the last 2 years that have been
successful. A mandate would be very helpful in maintaining the momentum
that we now have for peace, prosperity, and trust. It's a campaign and a fight
that will lead to success here in Nebraska and success in Kansas City in Novem-
ber for the country as a whole.
NOTE: The President spoke at 3:50 p.m. at Offutt Air Force Base.
440
Remarks at Groundbreaking Ceremonies for the
Bergan-Mercy Hospital in Omaha. May 7, 1976
Thank you, Sister Mary Vera, Archbishop Sheehan, Senator Hruska, Senator
Curtis, Secretary Butz, Mayor Zorinsky, distinguished guests, ladies and
gentlemen:
On my way here this afternoon, I visited the site of the house where I was
1487
