April 27
[372]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
We will endorse the House committee bill and hopefully in conference with
the Senate they can modify the Senate version so it would be acceptable and it
would coincide with the House committee bill and the legislation that I
recommended.
Q. Mr. President, there have been conflicting reports it seems to me in recent
days and weeks of your attitude toward the Panama Canal. Are you or are you
not in favor of the eventual turning over of control of the Canal Zone and the
canal to another government?
The President. I do not intend to turn it over during the usable or economic
lifetime of the canal as far as we are concerned. But, let me point out what my
opponent has said.
He had said, in effect, that we should stop the negotiating process that was
initiated first by President Johnson in 1965 following the riots of 1964, where 24
people were killed, including 4 U.S. servicemen. Those negotiations have gone on
with the Government of Panama since 1965. They are now in process at this
time and the reason we are doing that is to find an answer so that we can main-
tain the operation, the maintenance, and the defense of that canal during the
term of a treaty so that it will be usable by us and by other parties during its
usable economic lifetime.
Now, let me point out what my opponent's position is. He, in effect, says that
we should stop negotiating. I think that is irresponsible. Let me tell you why.
In the first place, it would mean that we would have a resumption of the riots
and the bloodshed that took place in 1964. It means that we would alienate 309
million people in South America, including 25 governments in South America,
who believe that we should make changes in the present setup in the Panama.
It means that with more riots and more bloodshed and the likelihood that we
would have sabotage and guerilla activity involving the Panama Canal, that we
would have to send an additional 10,000 to 20,000 American servicemen down to
the Canal Zone to defend the canal.
Now, this can all be avoided by rational, reasonable negotiations aimed at a
long-term treaty that would extend into the next century. And this is a construc-
tive process that President Johnson initiated and I am following at the present
time, and I can assure you that we will do nothing that will jeopardize the na-
tional security of the country.
Q. Mr. President, what's the status of the Federal Energy Agency [Adminis-
tration]? We understand it is going to end in June and its responsibilities will be
scattered.
The President. I have recommended that the FEA be extended for a period
1231
