June 1
[545]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
burg and spoke words that have rung through the decades of our history. They
are particularly appropriate today.
"It is rather for us to be here dedicated to the great task remaining before us—
that from these honored dead we take increased devotion to that cause for which
they gave their [the] last full measure of devotion—that we here highly resolve
that these dead shall not have died in vain—that this nation, under God, shall
have a new birth of freedom—and that government of the people, by the people,
for the people, shall not perish from the earth."
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:30 a.m. at the
Tomb of the Unknowns. In his opening remarks,
he referred to Robert S. Sutphin, president of the
Grand Army of the Republic Memorial Day Cor-
poration, Senator Robert Dole of Kansas, and Maj.
Gen. Robert G. Yerks, Commander of the U.S.
Military District of Washington.
545
Remarks on Signing the Second Supplemental Appropriations
Act, 1976. June 1, 1976
Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, distinguished Members of the House and Sen-
ate, distinguished guests:
This supplemental appropriation bill and our signing today provides over
$12 billion to fund very important programs of all Cabinet departments and
many other agencies during the remainder of fiscal year 1976 and the transition
quarter.
Although the bill contains a number of undesirable increases in spending
levels, it contains funds that are needed very quickly in areas including educa-
tion, health, energy research, veterans' benefits, and including the United States'
contribution to the new International Food and Agricultural Development
Fund, a major United States initiative at the 1974 World Food Conference in
Rome.
Of great importance, this bill contains $25 million in disaster relief assistance,
which I requested of the Congress on May 11 to help the Italian nation recover
from the devastating effects of the earthquake of May 6. Let me express my deep
appreciation to both Houses of the Congress for their prompt and favorable
action.
At a time when natural disaster has brought such great tragedy to the people
of Italy, Americans everywhere are moved to respond quickly and in the spirit
of profound friendship between our two countries.
1769
