April 27
[375]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
opportunity to get to know all of you, to make some reacquaintances, along
with some new acquaintances. I thank you for your hospitality, and the next
time I'll bring Betty down here. That's the trouble-I'm getting very self-con-
scious about her popularity. She takes care of the CB part of the―[laughter].
She told me after she got back from Texas that there was no problem. She had
all the truckdriver vote. [Laughter]
So, I'm going to send her down again to try and get my votes to her polls.
But thank you very much. It's been great being here and, Dalton and Sugar,
thank you and may I express my deepest appreciation for being made a member
of the Ambassador's Club. I've enjoyed it, being here, Holiday in Dixie, and as
I said, the next time, sometime in the next 5 years, if we get invited, Betty and
I will come down.
Thank you very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:30 p.m. at the resi-
dence of Mr. and Mrs. Dalton Woods, chairman of
the Ambassador's Club. In his opening remarks, he
referred to Representative Joe D. Waggonner, Jr.
Prior to his remarks, the President attended an in-
formal reception of the leadership and guests of the
Ambassador's Club.
375
Remarks at the Louisiana National Guard Military Ball
in Shreveport. April 27, 1976
Thank you very, very much, Joe and John Breaux and all of you wonderful mem-
bers of the Louisiana National Guard and your lovely wives:
I have had a just tremendous day here in Shreveport. The experience out at
Barksdale, the various functions that I have had the privilege and honor to attend,
the wonderful people that I have had the opportunity to meet, shake hands with,
talk with, listen to, this has been a tremendous day, and I want to thank all of
you here but also thank all of the people in this area through you.
So, it's just nice to be here, and the next time I'm going to bring Betty down.
I thank you on behalf of Betty, but you know, I get self-conscious when I get
those-[laughter]—wonderful applauses for her. I bask in her glory, which is
great, but I know she would love being here, and the next time I come down we
will come down together and enjoy your hospitality, your friendship, and the
warm welcome that you have given her; as I am sure you will do for us when
we make it the next time.
As I was coming here, shaking hands with many of you, it brought back some
1245
