April 23
[354]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
ing Lieutenant Governor and any other Republicans who are here―[laughter]—
you promise only what you can produce, and you produce everything that
you promise.
This administration is going to be frank and candid and honest with the
American people. We have been, and as a result of that we have their faith
and their trust.
So, I say to you, we have got the right organization with the right leader-
ship. We have got not only quality but quantity in the volunteers. We have
got the right programs both at home and abroad. We have got the enthusiasm,
we have got the momentum and, believe me, we are going to win in Indiana on
May 4. And we are going to the convention in August and we are going to
win there, and we are going to win in November.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 8:10 a.m. In his opening remarks, he referred to William G. Bray, U.S.
Representative from Indiana 1951-75.
354
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session in Indianapolis at
the Statewide Convention of the Indiana Broadcasters
Association. April 23, 1976
I THINK the best way to proceed on this is to limit my remarks to the mini-
mum and give all of you the maximum opportunity to ask some of the ques-
tions that might be on your mind.
I just wanted to notify all of you I paid off my bet with Bill Hudnut,' which
I made with him before the Michigan-Indiana basketball game. I had lots of
hopes. Our boys tried real well but, you know, we are not really disgraced. We
have an unblemished record. We are the only team that lost to Indiana three
times in 1 year. [Laughter]
Well, thank you very much. You come from a great industry. I like the idea
of the competition that you have within your industry—AM-FM radio, televi-
sion, private, public. This kind of competition is healthy just like competition
in athletics or in politics. I enjoy it—obviously you all do—and as a result, your
industry is stronger, more effective and, I think, better in the public interest.
So, thanks for the chance to answer your questions and good luck in the
years ahead. So, who's got the first question?
¹ Mayor of Indianapolis.
1161
