[524]
May 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
that we will get a few more than 50 percent of them, and from the reports we
get in the six States, I think that will take place.
Q. Mr. President, I understand you do not have California on your schedule
after this trip. The crowds in San Diego were not very large. Are you depressed
at all about California?
THE PRESIDENT. I'm not depressed at all about California. The crowds where
I have been have been excellent, the response has been very favorable. We
have not made a final decision as to whether I will return to California. I would
hope that I could, but we have to live within the law as to expenditures. And
when we get back to Washington and analyze the situation, we will make a
final decision. I sure would like to come back.
Q. Mr. President, this morning in Los Angeles you were asked about Sec-
retary Kissinger and you said you have no intention of letting him go. Does
that mean you will try to dissuade him from resigning if you are elected?
THE PRESIDENT. Of course.
Q. Do you think you will win all six States in the primaries today?
THE PRESIDENT. I don't want to get into picking one or another. We have ana-
lyzed all six, Phil [Phil Jones, CBS News], and our best judgment is that when
the total number of delegates represented by those six States are added up, we
will get at least a 50-50 break and hopefully a few more.
Q. Mr. President, can you give us a projection of where you think you will
be going into the California primary, and that day, when there are primaries
in New Jersey and Ohio as well, how do you think you will stand with Ronald
Reagan?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, our best judgment is we will continue the momentum
that we have. We think, of course, we will do well in New Jersey and Ohio, and
we hope to do better here in California than some of the forecasters have pre-
dicted. We are still an underdog, but I have seen some good underdogs win in
the final. We are still predicting in Kanasas City we will get a first ballot victory.
Q. Has California become a make it or break it State?
THE PRESIDENT. We haven't analyzed that as yet, of course, it is, a crucial
State.
Thank you all very, very much.
REPORTER. Thank you.
NOTE: The exchange began at 11:42 a.m. at the San Jose Airport.
1714
