April 30
[398]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
of the residents in their States. You said that parens patriae was properly a matter
for State legislatures rather than for Federal legislation. My question is, do you
still hold that view?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, I strongly feel that the Federal Government should
not turn over the prosecution responsibilities to State attorneys in 50 States. I
think if there are violations of our antitrust laws, the prosecution ought to be
undertaken by the Department of Justice. I don't think we should at the Federal
level give this responsibility to a State official who can or cannot use it for
his own political benefit.
I think that the Federal Government ought to assume the responsibility and
not turn such a major responsibility over to State officials. I think that is a
wrong concept, and what I said to Congressman John Rhodes I reiterate here
today.
Q. Would you veto that kind of legislation?
THE PRESIDENT. If that came down as its sole or particular provision. But I
think we have to recognize that that provision is a part of a number of proposed
changes in antitrust legislation. I can assure you that if it comes down separately,
there is no question about it. We will have to take a look at it when it comes
down in a 50-page or a 25-page overall provision.
But my efforts right now are to get the House and the Senate to oppose and
not to include that in any overall antitrust revision, and we were quite success-
ful in the House. Now, the matter is before the United States Senate.
FEDERAL REGULATION OF BUSINESS
[9.] Q. I'm Alex Cochrane; I'm chairman of the board of the James K.
Wilson Company retail stores here in Dallas. My question, sir, is what positive
steps do you contemplate taking to continue your policy of less regulation of
business by the Federal Government?
THE PRESIDENT. I have had three meetings with the top people on the various
regulatory commissions. I think there are 11 of these regulatory commissions—
ICC, FCC, FTC, et cetera. And in each case—well, in the first case, I said that
this administration's aim and objective was to get those commissions to do some-
thing affirmatively on their own to reduce their regulations and to eliminate
many of the obsolete or obsolescent rules and regulations that they have.
And I told them that I wanted within the next 6 months, as I recall, a report,
and I would meet with them again. Just about 3 weeks ago I met with the
chairman and the second ranking member of each of those commissions, and I
got a report from them. It's not as good as I would have liked, but it is progress.
1355
