1442]
May 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
sultation. If they want to buy more than that, there is no problem, as I see it.
So, there is no ceiling, one, on prices, and little or no ceiling that I see in
any way whatsoever as far as the purchase by the Soviet Union or the sale by us
of grain.
Q. How about the floor?
THE PRESIDENT. Well, as I recall we have-what is?-the target price. I don't
recall what it is for corn and wheat and soybeans, but there is a floor under the
target price established in the legislation that was passed first 3 years ago and
extended last year. It goes into 1977. There is a target floor price and that target
floor price is aimed at making certain that there is a basic ceiling. But it's much
lower than the market price now. It's much lower than the market price that
anybody anticipates. So, it's an insurance policy, but one that I don't think the
farmers will ever have to use.
Q. Mr. President, I am executive secretary of the Nebraska Livestock Feeders
Association. Would you support investigations and action against the Amal-
gamated Meat Cutters and Butcher Workmen, which is an AFL-CIO affiliate.
on their restraint of trade activities?
For example, they will not allow fresh meat to be sold in Chicago without
a meatcutter being present and, therefore, people in Chicago cannot buy fresh
meat after 6 o'clock at night, even though the store might be open. And they
are also banning the use of pre-cut or boxed beef in many cities, even though
the new technology does create a savings of from $30 to $50 a carcass. And it
is reported that the areas where boxed beef is prohibited by union rule covers
about 16 percent of our population or about 33 million people.
THE PRESIDENT. I strongly oppose those kind of free market interferences. I
think they are fundamentally destructive as far as the consumer is concerned.
I think they are harmful to the producer. Those kind of restraints of trade, in my
judgment, ought to be eliminated. And as far as I am concerned, they can
either be done by affirmative action of the Department of Justice or they can
be done by enactment of legislation. I would favor one or either of those
approaches.
Q. Mr. President, I am representing the Nebraska State Grange, and we
certainly appreciate the opportunity to visit with you today.
First of all, I would like to comment that the last time I visited with you, we
talked about the number one problem to agriculture was inflation. I believe
this is still true. The Grange certainly supports your attempts to control inflation
by your method of cutting government spending and certainly deficit spending,
We also talked at that time about your efforts to lower unemployment and
1498
