[470]
May 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
needlessly harassing the American businessmen, and I intend to see that they
do just that.
If you have any suggestions on how to make these agencies work more
effectively and more efficiently, the White House will certainly be more than
welcome to receive your recommendations.
But all of us recognize that reducing paperwork and improving our regulatory
practices really amount to only the treating of the symptoms of more
fundamental problems. We need to stop just scratching the surface, stop dealing
in piecemeal approaches, stop merely moving agencies around or renaming
them and, for a change, stop long enough to listen to what American business
and labor and consumers have to say about things.
What we need now is an agenda for action, a timetable for progress toward
real reform. We cannot untangle 40 years worth of bureaucratic redtape
overnight, but we can at least set the process in motion.
Because of the importance which I attach to the small business community
and because you have sought these needed reforms so persistently and so vigor-
ously, I am taking this occasion to announce that today I have sent to the Con-
gress legislation which will force action on fundamental regulatory reform in
each of the next 4 years. This legislation would require the President of the
United States to analyze the benefits and the problems of Federal regulation
and to make specific recommendations for reform to the Congress. It would
give the Congress a binding obligation and a very specific deadline to act on
these proposals.
For example, if this law were in force today, and I recommended, among
other things, that OSHA, its inspectors, be directed to give advice and assistance
to your business rather than just handing out fines, the Congress could not bury
those proposals, and they could not just talk them to death.
Both the House and the Senate would be required to act on these proposals
within 91½ months. Furthermore, the bill calls upon the President to ask your
advice on realistic reform, and because action is assured it will be worth the
investment of your time as well as your thought.
Here is the agenda: In 1977, we will develop comprehensive reform proposals
in transportation and agriculture; in 1978, mining, heavy manufacturing, and
public utilities; in 1979, light manufacturing and construction; in 1980, com-
munications, finance, insurance, and other service industries.
This comprehensive review will have four major goals:
-First, ensure that government policies do not infringe unnecessarily on
individual choice, individual initiative, or in the free marketplace.
1562
