[488]
May 16
Public Papers of the Presidents
will hold this country on its course of full economic recovery by using my veto
power again and again and again for our country's best wishes.
Why do I do this? I think the answer is very, very simple. I want to make
sure that your tax dollars work as hard for you as you did for them. And I know
how hard each and every one of you did work for those tax dollars, and your
government better spend them just as well as you can spend them.
But as we trace the last 21 months, let me say a word or two. We have reduced
inflation by more than half. We have increased national employment by 3,300-
000 people since last June. More men and women in America are working today,
are gainfully employed than ever in the history of the United States-87,400,000.
You have my promise that I am going to keep the pressure on until every
American who wants a job has a job, a rewarding, permanent job with a real
future instead of a dead-end, temporary, make-work job created by the govern-
ment itself.
Let me say a word or two about taxes. I am no expert on the situation in Sagi-
naw or otherwise in this area, but I can talk with some authority about the
Federal Government. I promised to you that we would have a tax cut last year.
We got it at the Federal level. I promised to you that we are going to work hard
to get the Congress on July 1 of this year to give you another $10 billion tax cut.
Why do we do that? Because I have an abiding faith that you can spend your
money much better than your government can for you and your family and
your community. That is what we want.
If you look at the record, the middle-income people of this country have been
shortchanged in the last few years by Federal tax policy. And in the recommen-
dations that I made to the Congress in January of this year, the one, the quickest,
the best way to change that was to propose that increase from $750 a person to
$1,000 in personal exemptions.
You don't have to worry about Al Cederberg supporting that, but boy, put
the pressure on the Congress, because that is the way we can give you and the
middle-income people the kind of a tax break that you need and that you have
earned and that you deserve.
May I say my administration is determined to stop the extension of govern-
ment intervention, government interference, and government control in your
daily lives. As a Congressman, as Vice President, and now as your President, I
have never lost sight of one very basic fact: A government big enough to give
you everything you want is a government big enough to take from you every-
thing you have.
1612
