[450]
May 11
Public Papers of the Presidents
hand to our friends in overseas lands. We have a unique opportunity to do all
this through one gift—a gift made easier by the availability of payroll deductions.
Federal employees and military personnel have a proud tradition of generosity
and concern for others. I am confident that tradition will be upheld this year.
While the amount you give is a personal, voluntary decision, I hope that each
of you will join me in supporting the Combined Federal Campaign to the fullest
extent possible.
GERALD R. FORD
451
Remarks Upon Signing the National Science and Technology
Policy, Organization, and Priorities Act of 1976.
May 11, 1976
Mr. Vice President, Members of the House and Senate, distinguished leaders
of the scientific and engineering community, and friends:
I am pleased that all of you could join with me on this very important occasion.
Almost 200 years ago, Thomas Jefferson said: "Knowledge is power; knowl-
edge is safety; knowledge is happiness."
We Americans have sought knowledge since Jefferson's time, sometimes for
its own sake and often used for the betterment of our own lives and the protec-
tion of the ideals on which our country was founded.
Those of us here today share a very strong view that science and engineer-
ing and technology can and must continue to make great contributions to the
achievement of our goals. We look to the men and women of our scientific
and engineering community to provide new knowledge and to provide new
products and services that we need for the growth of our economy, for the im-
provement of our health and for the defense of our Nation and for a better
life for all.
During the past 21 months I have been able to put into practice some of my
views about the importance of science and technology. In June of 1975, I pro-
posed legislation to create a new Office of Science and Technological [Tech-
nology Policy. That proposal has passed the Congress and is now before me for
approval. We have taken other steps to draw upon the knowledge of our sci-
entific and technical experts.
I have submitted to the Congress, as part of a fiscal year 1977 budget, requests
for nearly $25 billion that is needed to assure that we are moving forward in
all major areas of research and development, particularly in basic research.
1520
