[389]
April 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
instrument of progress and enduring peace, a source of strength and security.
But it must always be a servant, never the master of the American people.
We want the freedom in this country to choose our own course and our own
life, to chart our own future on our own terms without the government telling us
everything we can and cannot do. The elections of 1976 will play an important
role in deciding what course we chart for America's future. The future that I
see is one in which we find all Americans living in dignity, security, in harmony,
and in peace.
I see people taking pride in their work and finding pleasure and purpose and
prosperity in their lives. I see an America which cherishes the old values of
honesty, compassion, and determination and courage. I see an America which
continues to stand tall and strong and free among the nations of the world.
I see an America which rises to its challenges, fulfills its responsibilities, and
takes advantage of the opportunities for progress in every field of endeavor.
These are my goals, and this is the reason why I ask for your help and assist-
ance, your support on May 1, November 2, and in the challenging years ahead.
Thank you very, very kindly.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:04 p.m. after he
and Senator John G. Tower assisted in the unveiling
of the dedicatory plaque for the park. In his
opening remarks, he referred to Patrick George, pres-
ident of the Montgomery County Chamber of Com-
merce and Rev. Charles Godbey, pastor, First United
Methodist Church of Conroe.
Prior to the ceremonies, the President participated
in a local parade in his honor while motorcading
from Houston to the Conroe Town Square.
390
Remarks at a President Ford Committee Reception in Conroe,
Texas. April 29, 1976
IT IS great to be in this part of Texas and to see so many enthusiastic, so
friendly supporters of Jerry Ford for the Presidency of the United States, and
I thank you very much.
Did you know this is the second visit I have made to Texas in the last several
weeks? We were down here earlier, we came back and started on Tuesday after-
noon with a drop-by at Shreveport so we could get some good exposure in east
Texas. And then we went to Longview and to Tyler, and we have been to
Houston, and we are going to have 2 full more days coming down the road
because we think that although we started as an underdog we have got the mo-
mentum going. I think we are getting awful close, and I think we might win
next Saturday.
1320
