April 30
[401]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
that the Soviet Union and Cuba make no further advances than they have in
Angola. We want to be there ahead of them.
THE FEDERAL BUDGET
[3.] Q. Mr. President, I would like to know when you are going to balance
the budget? [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. The answer is yes, but, more importantly, let me tell you how.
When I became President we looked back over the record of the growth of
Federal spending and we found that for the previous 8 to 10 years there had
been a 10 to 11 percent increase in the growth of Federal spending over that
period of time, and this country can't afford to have that kind of rate of growth
in Federal spending. In fact, when I sat down for about 100 hours last Novem-
ber and December to make the final decisions on the budget, I found that if we
didn't change a law, but just kept the same laws on the statute books, didn't add
any, we would have a $50 billion automatic increase in Federal spending.
We decided that could not be tolerated. So we, in my budget that I submitted
to the Congress, we cut the rate of growth of Federal spending by 50 percent,
and I submitted to the Congress a budget calling for a spending ceiling of $395
billion. And if Congress were to go along with that cut in the rate of growth
of Federal spending, we could have a balanced budget for the United States in
fiscal year 1979.
But what worries me—and let me now just talk about the reality of the thing—
the Congress of the United States for the first time in history has to put together
its budget. They have just passed in the Senate, and they are about to pass in
the House, an increase in my budget from $395 billion to $415 billion or $416
billion-about a $17 billion to $18 billion to $19 billion increase. And further-
more, they have also increased the anticipated deficit by about $7 billion.
So, what I am really saying to you is, we are doing our utmost to balance it
and we will balance it and we promise to give an additional major tax cut in the
process.
THE MIDDLE EAST
[4.] Q. Mr. President, I would like to ask this question: What is your posi-
tion on our commitments to Israel?
THE PRESIDENT. First, let me say that one of the really significant achievements
of this administration has been the fact that we have the trust of the Arab na-
tions and the trust of the Israelis, and we have been very helpful in achieving
the progress toward a permanent, just settlement in the Middle East.
Now, our commitments to Israel or to the Arab nations are that we will help
1369
