April 29
[392]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
Senate, like John Tower, some in the Governorships, some former Governors,
some individuals in private life. I think we are very lucky in the Republican
Party to have a wealth of talent that is available for the convention to make a
choice.
When I say Ed Brooke is a potential as a qualified person, I mean it, and I'll
say it right here in Texas. I don't back away from that, and when I'm up in
Massachusetts, I will speak affirmatively about the possibility of John Tower
and John Connally. If we had a couple of good Senators in Indiana, I will say
something nice about them, too. [Laughter]
PANAMA CANAL NEGOTIATIONS
[4.] Q. Mr. President, Time magazine recently reported that Governor
Reagan's interpretation of the ongoing of the Panama Canal negotiations was
basically correct. And in a House subcommittee meeting, Ellsworth Bunker has
reportedly said that we are negotiating right now to give away the Panama
Canal.
Now, what I would like to know is, why is the United States giving away
the Panama Canal when it is a major source of income for this country?
THE PRESIDENT. First, I think we have to be factual about it. The Panama
Canal is not a major source of income for the United States. As a matter of fact,
the United States pays the Government of Panama $2.5 million a year for the
rights to have the canal go through the country of Panama. That is a factual
statement.
We don't get any revenue. As a matter of fact, it is a loss, and we pay Panama
$2.5 million a year for the rights that we exercise in Panama.
Now, I am not going to give away anything that involves our national secu-
rity as far as the Panama Canal is concerned. But, let me just give you the situa-
tion as we approach the negotiations.
In 1964, there was a terrible riot in Panama and in the Canal Zone. Twenty
Panamanians and four American GI's were killed. At that time, President
Lyndon Johnson decided the wise thing to do was to sit down and negotiate with
the Government of Panama to see if we could avoid that kind of bloodshed, if
we could find a responsible solution.
Those particular negotiations have gone on, carried out by President Johnson,
by President Nixon, and by myself. And those negotiations are an attempt to
find a responsible solution so that the United States of America loses nothing
in the capability to traverse or transit that canal, to use it along with all other
countries, and for a long, long period of time, well into the next century, prob-
1329
