April 28
[378]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
swer shows a great deal about how superficial those charges are. In order to
parallel Soviet forces, we would have to begin by mothballing the 13 aircraft
carriers that now sail the seas flying the American flag.
Our huge nuclear aircraft carriers like the Enterprise, the Nimitz, and the
Forrestal have no Soviet counterparts. Over half the Russian Navy consists of
small patrol craft, minesweepers, and other small vessels.
So, to match the Soviet Union, as my opponent seems to suggest, we would
have to retire our larger, more sophisticated ships with their awesome firepower
and replace them with many, many more patrol craft, minesweepers, and the
like. No one would truly believe that this would be a sane defense policy to
protect America and to protect our freedom around the world.
Look at our Air Force and ask what it would be like to make it exactly like
the Soviet Air Force. We would have to begin by grounding most of our B-52
bombers and calling off the progress we're making in developing a new, more
capable B-1 bomber.
Or, think of our Marines, those valiant men who have won so many famous
battles for us in the past. To parallel the Soviets, we would have to jettison the
Marine Corps because the Russians have nothing comparable in either quality or
in dedication.
Now, obviously, my opponent is not foolish enough to seriously suggest that
we should do away with our carriers, our B-52's, or the Marine Corps. The
significant point to make is that simplistic and superficial charges based on lim-
ited information and experience could lead to irresponsible and fundamentally
harmful policy decisions.
Let's take one of his favorite charges-that the Soviets have twice as many
men in uniform as the United States does. Presumably that means he wants to
double the number of men and women that we now have in uniform from
2,100,000 to about 4 million. Obviously, that would require us to reimpose the
draft to obtain sufficient manpower.
In turn, more than 2 million of our young people now in school or working
would have to go into the Armed Forces, presumably or probably, most of them
under selective service. We would have to divert billions of dollars now being
spent for sophisticated new weapons systems for the Army, Navy, Air Force,
and Marines to pay the added manpower costs.
Money that should be spent on the new B-1 bomber or the development of a
new ballistic missile or expanding our fleet would be wasted on maintaining
personnel levels that would add little to our overall military capabilities.
1253
