[387]
April 29
Public Papers of the Presidents
sions that you did not intend to seek reelection. Do you feel that that will affect
your current campaign, or do you think the public will have forgotten about
it by now?
The President. Well, at that time, I was simply nominated as Vice President
and under the circumstances, I felt the statement I made was the proper one.
When I became President and looked at the possibilities both in the Democratic
Party or in the Republican Party I felt that I was the best person to carry out
these effective programs so we could meet the economic challenges at home
and handle our foreign affairs in the most successful way. And with that feel-
ing, I decided that it was better for me to announce my candidacy and to seek
the election as President for the next 4 years.
That comment made when I was a nominee for Vice President I don't think
will undercut my efforts either in the primaries or in the election leading up
to November 2.
SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS TO THE DEFENSE BUDGET
[21.] Q. Mr. President, John Mashek, U.S. News [and World Report.]
Last night in introducing you, Senator Tower seemed to be suggesting that
you are contemplating a supplemental appropriation to the defense budget. Are
you, in fact, contemplating such a supplemental, and in what areas?
The President. Well, we have already submitted a supplemental of some
$300 million, as I recall, for the Mark III production line for the ICBM's and
some added equipment that would improve that ballistic missile capability.
Now, that decision was made because there has been a slowdown in the SALT
II negotiations and that production line was about to terminate under the pre-
vious funding, I think, on May 1 of this year.
Just as added insurance and good economics, I recommended sufficient money
to continue that production line for the next 6 to 12 months, as I recollect. So,
that supplemental is before the Congress. In addition, as I said in the January
budget that I submitted, we are currently reviewing our overall Navy shipbuild-
ing program.
The shipbuilding program that I proposed to the Congress added 16 major
capital ships, but it has been under review for some time. And we will get a final
answer within the next month or two as to whether or not we should add addi-
tional capital ships to our Navy program. If we decide that is needed, I will sub-
mit a supplemental.
1308
