May 24
[517]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
the last 6, 8, or 10 years has been an increase of 11 percent per year. If that rate
of increase in Federal spending went on and on and on, this country would
face a very serious economic and financial problem from which we probably
couldn't recover.
So, last November and December, when I had the obligation of putting the
Federal budget together, I looked at the figures, the forecasts, the future, and
I said the only way that we can maintain the financial and fiscal integrity of
this country was to cut the rate of growth in Federal spending by 50 percent.
So, when I submitted the budget to the House and the Senate in January,
we reduced the rate of growth in Federal spending by $28 billion. And if we
have the faith and the strength, and if the Congress will cooperate, we can have
a balanced budget by 1979 and give you another tax decrease at the same time.
But speaking of taxes, in January I recommended that the Congress approve
a $10 billion tax reduction, 75 percent of it to go to individuals, 25 percent of it
to go to business. The part for business is to permit American business to
expand, to give them an opportunity to provide more jobs, and every year we have
around 2 million more younger people coming into the labor market. So, the
economy of this country has to grow and businessmen have to have an incentive
to expand, to modernize.
But let's talk about the tax decrease that I recommended for individuals. What
would it do? The principal benefit would be to increase the personal exemption
from $750 per person to $1,000 per person. That's so that you can spend your
own money and the government won't waste it for you.
But, let's talk about our national security. Refresh your memory. Just about
a year ago the war in Vietnam was ended, and we're on a path of peace, we've
achieved it, we have it, we're going to maintain it. And the way to do it is to
have the unsurpassed military capability that the United States has today. There
isn't a single responsible military leader in this country who doesn't feel that
we have the military strength, the weapons, the people, the leadership to meet
every mission, every challenge that this country might be called upon in the
months ahead. We can deter aggression, we can maintain our national security,
and we can keep the peace—keep the peace, yes, for us, but mainly what we
want is the peace for the younger people, the children of our generation and the
children of their generation.
By keeping America strong, as we are today, we can keep the peace and we
can build a better and better America.
You have a great primary in the State of Nevada on Tuesday. It's one of six
primaries. Nevada is very important. We have good leadership with the Presi-
1689
