[645]
July 4
Public Papers of the Presidents
the harmony of nature. We must develop a safer society, so ordered that
happiness may be pursued without fear of crime or manmade hazards. We
must build a more stable international order, politically, economically, and
legally. We must match the great breakthroughs of the past century by im-
proving health and conquering disease. We must continue to unlock the secrets
of the universe beyond our planet as well as within ourselves. We must work
to enrich the quality of American life at work, at play, and in our homes.
It is right that Americans are always improving. It is not only right, it is nec-
essary. From need comes action, as it did here in Independence Hall. Those
fierce political rivals-John Adams and Thomas Jefferson-in their later years
carried out a warm correspondence. Both died on the Fourth of July of 1826, hav-
ing lived to see the handiwork of their finest hour endure a full 50 years.
They had seen the Declaration's clear call for human liberty and equality
arouse the hopes of all mankind. Jefferson wrote to Adams that "even should
the cloud of barbarism and despotism again obscure the science and libraries
of Europe, this country remains to preserve and restore life [light] and liberty
to them."
Over a century later, in 1936, Jefferson's dire prophesy seemed about to come
true. President Franklin D. Roosevelt, speaking for a mighty nation, reinforced
by millions and millions of immigrants who had joined the American adventure,
was able to warn the new despotisms: "We too, born to freedom, and believing
in freedom, are willing to fight to maintain freedom. We, and all others who be-
lieve as deeply as we do, would rather die on our feet than live on our knees."
The world knows where we stand. The world is ever conscious of what Amer-
icans are doing for better or for worse, because the United States today remains
the most successful realization of humanity's universal hope.
The world may or may not follow, but we lead because our whole history
says we must. Liberty is for all men and women as a matter of equal and un-
alienable right. The establishment of justice and peace abroad will in large
measure depend upon the peace and justice we create here in our own country,
where we still show the way.
The American adventure began here with a firm reliance on the protection of
Divine Providence. It continues in a common conviction that the source of our
blessings is a loving God, in whom we trust. Therefore, I ask all the members of
the American family, our guests and friends, to join me now in a moment of
silent prayer and meditation in gratitude for all that we have received and to
ask continued safety and happiness for each of us and for the United States of
America.
1970
