| 437]
May 7
Public Papers of the Presidents
to measure the conduct of sovereign foreign governments. If Congress finds
such conduct deficient, specific actions by the the United States to terminate or
limit our cooperation with the government concerned would be mandated. By
making any single factor the effective determinant of relationships which must
take into account other considerations, such provisions would add a new element
of uncertainty to our security assistance programs and would cast doubt upon
the reliability of the United States in its dealings with other countries. Moreover,
such restrictions would most likely be counterproductive as a means for climi-
nating discriminatory practices and promoting human rights. The likely result
would be a selective disassociation of the United States from governments
unpopular with the Congress, thereby diminishing our ability to advance the
cause of human rights through diplomatic means.
Trade with Vietnam
The bill would suspend for 180 days the President's authority to control
certain trade with North and South Vietnam, thereby removing a vital bargain-
ing instrument for the settlement of a number of differences between the United
States and these countries. I have the deepest sympathy for the intent of this
provision, which is to obtain an accounting for Americans missing in action in
Vietnam. However, the enactment of this legislation would not provide any
real assurances that the Vietnamese would now fulfill their long-standing obli-
gation to provide such an accounting. Indeed, the establishment of a direct link-
age between trade and accounting for those missing in action might well only
perpetuate Vietnamese demands for greater and greater concessions.
This Administration is prepared to be responsive to Vietnamese action on the
question of Americans missing in action. Nevertheless, the delicate process of
negotiations with the Vietnamese cannot be replaced by a legislative mandate
that would open up trade for a specified number of days and then terminate that
trade as a way to achieve our diplomatic objectives. This mandate represents an
unacceptable attempt by Congress to manage the diplomatic relations of the
United States.
Termination of Grant Military Assistance and Advisory Groups
The legislation would terminate grant military assistance and military assist-
ance advisory groups after fiscal year 1977 except where specifically authorized
by Congress, thus creating a presumption against such programs and missions.
Such a step would have a severe impact on our relations with other nations
whose security and well-being are important to our own national interests. In
the case of grant assistance, it would limit our flexibility to assist countries whose
1484
