May 8
[444]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
nomic threats have certainly not disappeared, we now have concrete evidence
that if Washington will only make the right decisions, if Washington will only
trust the people, then America can stay on the path toward prosperity.
There is one final lesson to be drawn from these years that I hope each and
every one of you will always remember. Many, many times in the 1960's and in
the early 1970's, as skies grew dark and cloudy, there was a temptation to give
up, to yield to the voices of defeat or the voices of hysteria, but the American
people never did. They never gave up.
Here in Nebraska people have always known full well what it is to endure
and to overcome adversity. As students here at the university, you must have
read about the hardships of the 19th century prairie life in the novels of one
of Nebraska's and one of America's most beloved writers, Willa Cather. You
must have talked with your parents as well as your grandparents about the
great farm depression and the droughts of the 1930's. You know that life on the
Great Plains can be tough and that one thing you can never afford to do is quit.
By instinct Americans move in only one direction-forward. The story is
sometimes told how Thomas Edison invented the electric light bulb. Time and
time again he tried to find the right filament but could not unlock the secrets of
science. Finally, his young assistant said, “Mr. Edison, perhaps you should give
up. You have tried your experiment 586 times and every time you have failed.”
"No," replied Edison. "We have only found 586 ways that won't work and won't
have to be tried again. Soon, we will find one that does." He did. Edison was
never a quitter. To him, as he once said, “Genius is 1 percent inspiration and
99 percent perspiration.”
Members of the graduating Class of 1976, I join your parents and your
friends this morning in saluting you for your accomplishments. By your studies
here, you have earned one of the most cherished documents that anyone can
possess a college degree. You have successfully begun your careers during one
of the most exciting and potentially one of the most rewarding periods in all of
America's history.
In the years ahead, when new challenges arise—as they surely will-I urge
that you bear in mind the lessons of the past. Remember that America is a great
and a good nation with an enormous reservoir of material and personal re-
sources. Remember that the secret of America lies not in the power of its
government, but in the power, the freedom, and the goodness of its people.
And remember, too, that America is always at the height of its glory when
she has to climb the tallest mountains.
A few years ago we celebrated the 150th anniversary of Abraham Lincoln's
1509
