[523]
May 25
Public Papers of the Presidents
523
Remarks and a Question-and-Answer Session With Members
of the Los Angeles Press Club. May 25, 1976
Thank you very, very much, John, Ev Younger, Mayor Bradley, Bishop Ward.
members of the Los Angeles Press Club, and guests:
First, let me thank you from the bottom of my heart for the honorary mem-
bership in this very prestigious club. Let me say that 30 years ago I had no
premonition that I would be here, either, on such an occasion. [Laughter]
But I also would like to thank your good mayor, Tom Bradley. The Ford
family are deeply indebted to Tom and his wife. My wife Betty has been out
here on a number of occasions, and I visited the city on quite a few occasions,
and in each and every instance Tom and his wife have been very cordial and
warm in their reception, and I thank you very much, Tom.
I might add that it is Ron Nessen's 42d birthday. You know Ron started his
job as a young, healthy, alert, and vital newsman. [Laughter] Look at him
now. [Laughter But I might add as a postscript, I think Ron does a first-class job
for me. Any of the problems that arise are mine, not his.
But, John and members of the press club, I am deeply grateful for the
invitation to be here this morning. I am told that the Greater Los Angeles Press
Club was founded on Friday, June 13, 1947, and 1 year later, for the celebra-
tion of your first birthday in 1948, you took over the Coconut Grove and invited
the President of the United States to be your guest. Although it isn't quite your
30th birthday, I congratulate you and wish you many, many happy returns.
And I hope that you will invite me back to help you celebrate your 31st
anniversary or dedicate your new west coast communication center. If you do,
I will accept.
The most memorable quote from Harry Truman's appearance before the
press club here 20 years ago was his observation, "The President of the United
States is behind the eight ball a good deal of the time." I don't see where things
have changed a great deal. [Laughter]
But, exciting as President Truman's comeback trail in California was during
the campaign, I wasn't paying too much attention to it. I had a campaign of
my own to worry about, my first, in 1948. The main issue in my campaign
was foreign policy, whether the United States should exercise its role of leader-
ship in the post-war period or whether we should retreat into old-fashioned
isolationism, whether we should demobilize further and reduce our defenses
1704
