[468]
May 13
Public Papers of the Presidents
Congressman John Anderson have also introduced systematic reform legisla-
tion. My legislation addresses similar concerns. I look forward to working with
Congress to achieve our common goals.
Let me stress that this new program must not delay reform efforts now under-
way. This new legislation is a complement not a substitute for the on-going
administrative improvements and legislative proposals I have already an-
nounced. My Administration will continue to press forward with reduction of
unnecessary and burdensome regulation and elimination of goverment-imposed
paperwork and red tape. We will continue to make administrative improve-
ments wherever possible, and to obtain congressional action on proposals for
increased competition in regulated industries.
This is an ambitious program. But I believe it is possible to make our regula-
tory system responsive to the concerns of all Americans. They demand and
deserve nothing less. I ask the Congress to act quickly on this legislation so that
together we may begin to create a legacy of economic prosperity for future
generations.
The White House,
GERALD R. FORD
May 13, 1976.
NOTE: A section-by-section analysis and a copy of the draft bill were also included as part of the release.
469
Remarks at the Annual Meeting of the American Retail
Federation. May 13, 1976
THANK you very, very much, Mr. Secretary.
I was hesitant about interrupting and I am sure you all understand, but I did
want to say hello to all of you again and indicate the pleasure and privilege that
I had in meeting with your group some time in the middle of March when I
met with a number of you, at least, in the White House.
I appreciate that you are giving the Secretary of Commerce an opportunity to
discuss with you some of the major problems that we feel that you face and
that we want to try and solve.
It is my understanding, Mr. Secretary, that there was a briefing held this
morning with those that are filling you in on the new deregulation proposal
1556
