April 30
[406]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
recommended starting July 1, and I hope the Congress has enough good sense
to accept that proposal.
Now, I have promised, and I reiterated here today, that if we follow my
budget recommendations to curtail the rate of growth of Federal spending by
cutting it in half, if Congress will do that we can have an additional tax
reduction of major proportions in 2 years, and that is what we want, in addition
to what I have recommended for this year.
EFFORTS TO REDUCE THE FEDERAL BUREAUCRACY
[4.] Q. Mr. President, I am from Knoxville, Tennessee. I was wondering
if you could comment on the policy that you took as Congressman and as Presi-
dent in controlling our growing bureaucracy in Washington, D.C.?
THE PRESIDENT. First, as a Member of the Congress and for 16 years as a
member of the House Committee on Appropriations, I was known among my
colleagues, both Democratic and Republican, as a hardliner as far as Federal
expenditures were concerned. I am proud of that record.
Incidentally, in Congress I cast about 4,000 votes, and anybody who wants
to look at that record, they can go back and check it. And you will find I was
one of the most conservative individuals in the spending of taxpayers' money
during that 25-plus years.
Now, as far as the term as President, let me indicate to you what we are
doing and what we hope to achieve. First, about 6 months ago, I told the Direc-
tor of the Office of Management and Budget that we had to cut by 10 percent
the redtape, the forms that people have to fill out when they deal with the Fed-
eral Government. And I am glad to report to you that I got information just a
week or so ago that we have already achieved about 4 to 5 percent of that cut-
back. And I have a deadline of July 1 of this year that they—the departments,
the agencies, the bureaus, and the commissions-better have achieved that
record by July 1 of 1976 of a 10-percent cutback. If they don't, there will be some
action some of them won't like. [Laughter]
REPUBLICAN VICE-PRESIDENTIAL NOMINEE
[5.] Q. Mr. President, have you made a decision on your running mate?
THE PRESIDENT. No, I have not. I believe, and believe very sincerely, that we
have a wealth of talent in the Republican Party, men in the Senate such as
John Tower, men who are Governors-well, there are a number of them—
members or individuals who were former public officials, who I think could
1391
