April 29
[389]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
The sooner we get the government regulations off the back of America's oil
and natural gas producer, the sooner we will achieve energy independence for
America, for 215 million Americans. And obviously, I say, the sooner the better.
Fifteen months ago, as Senator Tower and Congressman Wilson know, I
recommended decontrol of oil and new natural gas prices. The Congress de-
liberated, delayed, debated, and dawdled all the way from January to Decem-
ber of 1975 and finally sent me an energy bill. Believe me, it was a long way
from perfect, as John and Charlie know, but at least it was a start.
In that bill, the Congress agreed for the first time to remove control over oil
prices. Unfortunately, the Congress insisted that full decontrol be carried out
over a 40-month period. I indicated last December that I would order immedi-
ate steps to remove controls of petroleum products. I also pledged that I would
use all of the flexibility available in that legislation to allow the increases in
crude oil prices that are absolutely necessary to stimulate domestic oil produc-
tion.
We have already sent to the Congress the plan for the decontrol of residual
oil, and this decontrol plan will go into effect in a very few weeks. Plans are also
being prepared to decontrol distillates and gasoline. We are moving in the right
direction in this whole area, both to provide the incentives that we need and to
reduce the control of the Federal bureaucracy over this great industry.
But my goal has been, will continue to be, the removal of all price controls
from oil and new natural gas as the very, very best way to achieve energy in-
dependence for the United States of America.
Last week, obviously, I was very pleased that the Texas Independent Produc-
ers and Royalty Owners Association expressed its support for my efforts to
achieve energy independence for America. I deeply appreciate that support from
one of the largest and most influential petroleum associations in Texas.
Let me assure you, as well as them, that I intend to keep right on with these
efforts for the next 4 years.
Furthermore, I will do all that I possibly can to see that government regula-
tions and redtape do not enslave free enterprise and personal freedom in this
great country. The heavy, heavy hand of government has found its way into too
many areas of our national and personal life.
If there is one thing that we must never forget, it is that a government big
enough to give us everything we want is a government big enough to take from
us everything we have. We have the very best system of government in the
whole globe. It is a system laid out with great care and paid for at great, great
price by patriots yearning for freedom. It is a system that can be a powerful
1319
