April 27
[373]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
one today, I believe your image is the most honest image I know of today—I
just wish you could say what your feelings really are, as I believe that there is
an acute energy shortage from the conferences I have attended. I would ap-
preciate you making your position clear, as well as maybe putting the other
Presidential candidates on the spot, and making them make theirs clear.
The President. Let me tell you how acute, how serious the energy problem is.
Prior to the oil embargo imposed by the Middle East nations in 1973, October
of that year, the United States was importing about 31 to 32 percent of all the oil
that we consumed in the United States. Today, we are importing over 40 percent
of all of the oil that the United States uses domestically and, if my recollection is
correct, in 1 week in March, we imported more oil from overseas than we pro-
duced domestically in this country for the first time in the history of the United
States.
Now, how does that translate into a crisis? It's a crisis now because we're pay-
ing about $12.50 a barrel for overseas oil. We are spending about $30 billion to
$35 billion in good, hard U.S. dollars to buy oil primarily from the Middle East,
and maybe, some from South America. Those are dollars coming out of the
United States we should keep here. Instead of sending it overseas, those dollars
could be used for American jobs here in the United States. That's the first part
of the problem.
The second part of the problem arises if and when—I hope not—we have
another oil embargo. If we have another oil embargo where we are dependent
on 40 percent of our oil from overseas, it will be much, much worse than the
crisis we faced in October, November, December of 1973. So, we not only have
a short-term problem of losing American jobs but we also have a long-term
potential threat in case we have another oil embargo.
So, what is the answer? As Joe and John and your Governor know, I sub-
mitted to the Congress, as I said earlier, a comprehensive energy program. After
all the pulling and hauling, we came out with much less than I wanted but at
least we got a start on oil.
We got a terrible disappointment in the House of Representatives on natural
gas. We lost by what-three votes, Joe or John? About three votes. Just unfor-
givable, but we're going to keep trying because we can't leave the United States
in this kind of a position of jeopardy, and I'm going to do all I can to prevent it.
JUDICIAL NOMINATIONS FOR LOUISIANA
[6.] Q. Mr. President, my question concerns the information, at least the
ideas that we have relative to their existing or soon to exist in Louisiana, a vacancy
1239
