[535]
May 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
cated that you would get your administration to try and reverse a court order
protecting porpoises against being killed by tuna fishing.
My question is this, sir: If the President of the United States does not accept
court decisions, doesn't that encourage the people of the United States to defy
court decisions, and isn't there a danger the law of the land will be eroded?
THE PRESIDENT. Not at all, because whether I agree with decisions or not, this
administration, through the Attorney General, has insisted that the court deci-
sions, whether they are in Boston or Detroit or anyplace else, be upheld. I have
repeatedly said that the administration will uphold the law.
Now, in the case of court-ordered, forced busing, which I fundamentally dis-
agree with as the proper way to get quality education, the Attorney General is
looking himself to see whether there is a proper record in any case that would
justify the Department of Justice entering as amicus curiae a proceeding before
the Supreme Court to see if the Court would review its decision in the Brown'
case and the several that followed thereafter.
I think that's a very proper responsibility for the Department of Justice and
the Attorney General to take. They need clarification because all of these busing
cases are not identical. And if the Department of Justice thinks that they can't
administer the law properly under the decisions because of the uncertainties, I
think the Department of Justice has an obligation to go to the court and ask for
clarification. And that is precisely what the Attorney General may do.
Now, in the case of the decision by Judge Richey involving the tuna industry,
that was a decision made by him under the Mammal Protection Act. But the net
result is he has literally interpreted the law so that in effect it will ruin the tuna
industry in this country and, at the same time, preclude the tuna industry from
doing the things that they are doing to cut down the loss of life as far as porpoises
are concerned. And the tuna industry, from my own personal examination—
and I think you were there-they have considerably changed the kind of nets
that they are using so the loss of porpoises has been cut significantly. And ap-
parently Judge Richey, in interpreting the law, didn't take into consideration
the tremendous improvements of the tuna industry in trying to save the lives
of porpoises.
Now, in the meantime, one of the Members of the House of Representatives
At his news conference on Thursday, May 27, 1976, Press Secretary Ron Nessen stated: "The refer
ence to the Brown case was not correct. Over the years the President has consistently and firmly stated
that he supports the Brown decision and in the news conference itself last night a number of times
he said that he is opposed to segregation in schools and intends to uphold constitutional rights in school
cases. What he was referring to... in that remark was some of the more recent court cases since
Brown that have ordered forced busing to achieve desegregation."
1756
