July 1
[632]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
energy from Sun and Earth; develop new agricultural technologies so all the
deserts of the Earth can bloom; conquer many more of humanity's deadly
enemies, such as cancer and heart disease.
As Thoreau reminded us, long before the age of air and space, "The frontiers
are not east or west, north or south, but wherever man fronts a fact." The Ameri-
can adventure is driven forward by challenge, competition, and creativity. It
demands of us sweat and sacrifice and gives us substance and satisfaction. Our
country must never cease to be a place where men and women try the untried,
test the impossible, and take uncertain paths unto the unknown.
Our Bicentennial commemorates the beginning of such a quest, a daring at-
tempt to build a new order in which free people govern themselves and fulfill
their individual destinies. But the best of the American adventure lies ahead.
Thomas Jefferson said, "I like to dream of the future better than the history
of the past." So did his friendly rival, John Adams, who wrote of his dream,
“. . . to see rising in America an empire of liberty, and a prospect of two or
three hundred millions of freemen, without one noble or one king among
them. You say it is impossible. If I should agree with you in this, I would still
say—let us try the experiment." I can only add-let the experiment continue.
Thank you.
NOTE: The President spoke at 11:13 a.m. at the
National Air and Space Museum. In his opening
remarks, he referred to S. Dillon Ripley, Secretary
of the Smithsonian Institution.
Prior to his remarks, the President toured the mu-
seum, which is part of the Smithsonian Institution.
632
Remarks at the Centennial Safe Opening at the Capitol.
July 1, 1976
Thank you very much, Senator Mike Mansfield, Mr. Speaker, Senator Scott,
Senator Brooke, Congresswoman Boggs, distinguished Members of the House
and Senate, ladies and gentlemen:
Obviously, I am deeply honored to have the opportunity this afternoon to open
this historic Centennial safe. It contains many items of interest to us today as we
celebrate the completion of our second century. But it symbolizes much more
than a valuable collection of mementos, it symbolizes something about the
United States of America that is so mighty and so inspiring that it cannot be
locked up in a safe-I mean the American spirit.
When this safe was sealed, Americans looked forward to the future, to this
1941
