June 7
[574]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
But let's talk just a minute or two about the overall. When I became the Pres-
ident 22 months ago, this country was in tough shape. The people had lost con-
fidence in the White House. We were suffering inflation at a rate of about 12
percent. We were on the brink of a serious economic recession. Our allies abroad
were very, very apprehensive about the will and the strength of America, and
our adversaries could have been tempted to undertake some action against this
country.
But in the last 22 months we have restored honesty, trust, and confidence in
the White House, and I'm darn proud of it. But everybody here is equally con-
cerned about inflation and jobs. What have we done there? It is very simple-
12 percent when I became President, it is now 3 percent or less. That is progress,
and we are going to do better in the months ahead.
In the last year from the depths of the recession, we have increased total em-
ployment in this country 3,600,000 more jobs, 300,000 more jobs in the last
month. It was announced by the Department of Labor just last Friday that
87,700,000 people have jobs in America, an alltime high. And we're going to
do better than that in the months ahead.
Let me make this commitment to you. I will not be satisfied as your President
until every person who wants a job has a job in America.
Let me make one final comment. This country is a good country. This coun-
try is the kind of a country that our forefathers established so they could give to
us the opportunities and the blessings that we have. Every one of us has a stake
in making this a better country. Can I ask for your support so that I have the
opportunity for the next 4 years to make this country a better place for all of us,
but particularly these young people here who want the opportunity to do bet-
ter than we have? I ask for your help. We've got to win, and we will.
Let me make this observation. You want Bob Taft as your next United States
Senator, reelected. You want Tom Kindness, Chuck Whalen, Bud Brown, the
rest of the delegation. President Ford can win in November, and President Ford
can make certain that Bob Taft wins, Tom Kindness wins, that Chuck Whalen
wins, that Bud Brown wins.
We don't want a repetition of the debacle that took place in 1964. We want a
ticket from the courthouse to the White House that can win for the kind of
America that's good for all of us. I ask for your support. I have done a good job,
and I want your help.
Thank you very, very much.
NOTE: The President spoke at 12:05 p.m. at the
Middletown Mall. In his opening remarks, he re-
ferred to Representative Thomas N. Kindness and
Gov. James A. Rhodes of Ohio.
1833
