[366]
April 26
Public Papers of the Presidents
366
Remarks at a Briefing for Women in Top-Level
Government Positions. April 26, 1976
IT'S NICE to see you all this morning. I just came from giving a speech over at
the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. I like the intimate kind of meetings rather
than the big, massive audience like we had over there. It gives me a chance to
speak without any notes and to not have to read a text. So, let me just say a few
words in general without the benefit of any text or written comments.
First, I want to congratulate each and every one of you for having achieved an
outstanding position in our Federal Government. I am very, very pleased as I
look around the room to see the number as well as the quality.
I was noticing the other day that this administration has 14 percent of the top
jobs filled by women, which I am told is an alltime high as far as administrations
are concerned. So, it wasn't done other than on the basis of quality, and I con-
gratulate each and every one of you for having earned that opportunity to serve
your Government and to serve our people.
I was meeting last week with the Citizens' Advisory Committee [Council]
on the Status of Women. I always have a little trouble getting that series of words
together. But anyhow I read their report, which does indicate that we have
made substantial progress. But I think on the other hand, it likewise points out
that we've got a great deal more area of or target of opportunity.
There have been substantial increases among women serving in elective office,
appointive office in the executive, the legislative and the judicial branch, but we
have a long way to go. And I pledge to you that I will continue what we have
tried to do, which is to appoint, to nominate more and more women, because
the performance that you have all given to this Government certainly deserves
that others should be following in your footsteps.
I look with great pride that we've got Carla Hills in the Cabinet and Betty
Murphy in the NLRB and Anne Armstrong and a number of others in the
Diplomatic Corps and a number of you, as I see, in the military and other civilian
capacities.
You are doing an outstanding job, and by the fact that you are, it gives us
good reason to see that opportunities for others are multiplied. What is really
does, I think, is open the door, the door that was hard to open in the first instance.
Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, Chairman of the National Labor Relations Board, and
U.S. Ambasador to the United Kingdom, respectively.
1216
