June 16
[600]
Gerald R. Ford, 1976
THE PRESIDENT. I think we have resolved those boundaries.
PRIME MINISTER TRUDEAU. The sea boundaries we have been talking about—
[laughter]—and by accepting this gift you are not committed to anything—
[laughter]—a show of friendship.
THE PRESIDENT. We will blame the photographers.
PRIME MINISTER TRUDEAU. Well, there we are, and we are living with friend-
ship on both sides, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Prime Minister, let me thank you and the Canadian
people on behalf of myself, as well as the American people, for this beautiful
Bicentennial gift between friends. You have said, and it is so true, that our
boundary of some 5,000 miles is a boundary that means much because it is a
boundary of peace. It goes from the St. Lawrence to the Great Lakes to the
Rockies to the wilds of the Arctic. It is a boundary that we are proud of. It is a
boundary where people can cross with a minimum of effort and where crossings
take place on a daily basis in the best of intentions and the best of objectives.
The American people are proud of their relationship with your people, and
we are very, very grateful for this very thoughtful gift. And I am looking for-
ward to the opportunity of seeing the pictures of the boundary. It is a boundary
of peace; it is a boundary that I hope will set an example for nations through-
out the world.
It is a boundary that will be crossed this summer by many people from Can-
ada coming to the United States for our Bicentennial, and it is a boundary that
will be crossed by many Americans going to the Montreal Olympics. And I
think both occasions are great occasions for the Canadians as well as for the
Americans.
I understand that some of the original pictures that were taken by this dis-
tinguished group will be at the Field Museum in Chicago. And it is my under-
standing you and I have sent a message to the—————
PRIME MINISTER TRUDEAU. We have, sir. [Laughter]
THE PRESIDENT. I just want to verify it.
PRIME MINISTER TRUDEAU. Written in our own hand.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
That is a great museum and it will be, I am sure, warmly received by the
people in the Middle West who will look forward to the photographs that have
been taken by this distinguished group.
I reemphasize our gratitude for your thoughtfulness on the occasion of our
Bicentennial. It has a great depth of feeling and it is, I think, an indication of
the Canadian-U.S. friendship for so many years in the best of traditions.
1887
